# Open Source Project Security Baseline

Version: 2025-02-25

<button onclick="toTop()" id="topButton" title="Go to top"
style="display: none; position: fixed; bottom: 20px; right: 30px; border: none; background-color: CornflowerBlue; color: white; cursor: pointer; padding: 10px; border-radius: 10px; font-size: 18px;">to top</button> 

<script>
let topButton = document.getElementById("topButton");
window.onscroll = function() {scrollFunction()};

function scrollFunction() {
  if (document.documentElement.scrollTop > 50 ) {
    topButton.style.display = "block";
  } else {
    topButton.style.display = "none";
  }
}

function toTop() {
  document.documentElement.scrollTop = 0;
}
</script>


* Contents
{:toc}

## Overview

The Open Source Project Security (OSPS) Baseline is a set of security criteria that projects should meet to demonstrate a strong security posture.
The controls are organized by maturity level and category.
In the detailed subsections you will find the control, rationale, and details notes.


Where possible, we have added control mappings to external frameworks.
These are not guaranteed to be 100% matches, but instead serve as references
when working to meet the corresponding controls.

For more information on the project and to make contributions, visit the [GitHub repo](https://github.com/ossf/security-baseline).

---

## Controls Overview

* [Level 1](#level-1): for any code or non-code project with any number of maintainers or users
* [Level 2](#level-2): for any code project that has at least 2 maintainers and a small number of consistent users
* [Level 3](#level-3): for any code project that has a large number of consistent users

### Level 1

**[OSPS-AC-01.01](#osps-ac-0101)**: When a user attempts to access a sensitive resource in the project&#39;s
[version control system], the system MUST require the user to complete
a [multi-factor authentication] process.

**[OSPS-AC-02.01](#osps-ac-0201)**: When a new [collaborator] is added, the [version control system] MUST
require manual permission assignment, or restrict the [collaborator]
permissions to the lowest available privileges by default.

**[OSPS-AC-03.01](#osps-ac-0301)**: When a direct [commit] is attempted on the project&#39;s [primary branch],
an enforcement mechanism MUST prevent the [change] from being applied.

**[OSPS-AC-03.02](#osps-ac-0302)**: When an attempt is made to delete the project&#39;s [primary branch],
the [version control system] MUST treat this as a sensitive activity
and require explicit confirmation of intent.

**[OSPS-BR-01.01](#osps-br-0101)**: When a [CI/CD pipeline] accepts an input parameter, that parameter MUST
be sanitized and validated prior to use in the pipeline.

**[OSPS-BR-03.01](#osps-br-0301)**: When the project lists a URI as an official project channel, that URI
MUST be exclusively delivered using encrypted channels.

**[OSPS-DO-01.01](#osps-do-0101)**: When the project has made a [release], the [project documentation] MUST
include user guides for all basic functionality.

**[OSPS-DO-02.01](#osps-do-0201)**: When the project has made a [release], the [project documentation] MUST
include a guide for reporting [defects].

**[OSPS-GV-02.01](#osps-gv-0201)**: While active, the project MUST have one or more mechanisms for public
discussions about proposed [changes] and usage obstacles.

**[OSPS-GV-03.01](#osps-gv-0301)**: While active, the [project documentation] MUST include an explanation
of the contribution process.

**[OSPS-LE-02.01](#osps-le-0201)**: While active, the [license] for the source code MUST meet the OSI Open
Source Definition or the FSF Free Software Definition.

**[OSPS-LE-02.02](#osps-le-0202)**: While active, the [license] for the [released software assets] MUST meet
the OSI Open Source Definition or the FSF Free Software Definition.

**[OSPS-LE-03.01](#osps-le-0301)**: While active, the [license] for the source code MUST be maintained in
the corresponding [repository]&#39;s [LICENSE] file, COPYING file, or
[LICENSE]/ directory.

**[OSPS-LE-03.02](#osps-le-0302)**: While active, the [license] for the [released software assets] MUST be
included in the released source code, or in a [LICENSE] file, COPYING
file, or [LICENSE]/ directory alongside the corresponding [release]
assets.

**[OSPS-QA-01.01](#osps-qa-0101)**: While active, the project&#39;s source code [repository] MUST be publicly
readable at a static URL.

**[OSPS-QA-01.02](#osps-qa-0102)**: The [version control system] MUST contain a publicly readable record of
all [changes] made, who made the [changes], and when the [changes] were
made.

**[OSPS-QA-02.01](#osps-qa-0201)**: When the package management system supports it, the source code
[repository] MUST contain a dependency list that accounts for the direct
language dependencies.

**[OSPS-QA-04.01](#osps-qa-0401)**: While active, the [project documentation] MUST contain a list of any
[codebases] that are considered [subprojects] or additional [repositories].

**[OSPS-QA-05.01](#osps-qa-0501)**: While active, the [version control system] MUST NOT contain generated
executable artifacts.

**[OSPS-VM-02.01](#osps-vm-0201)**: While active, the [project documentation] MUST contain
security contacts.


### Level 2

**[OSPS-AC-04.01](#osps-ac-0401)**: When a CI/CD task is executed with no permissions specified, the
project&#39;s [version control system] MUST default to the lowest available
permissions for all activities in the pipeline.

**[OSPS-BR-02.01](#osps-br-0201)**: When an official [release] is created, that [release] MUST be assigned a
unique [version identifier].

**[OSPS-BR-04.01](#osps-br-0401)**: When an official [release] is created, that [release] MUST contain
a descriptive log of functional and security
modifications.

**[OSPS-BR-05.01](#osps-br-0501)**: When a [build and release pipeline] ingests dependencies, it MUST
use standardized tooling where available.

**[OSPS-BR-06.01](#osps-br-0601)**: When an official [release] is created, that [release] MUST be signed or
accounted for in a signed manifest including each asset&#39;s
cryptographic hashes.

**[OSPS-DO-06.01](#osps-do-0601)**: When the project has made a [release], the [project documentation] MUST
include a description of how the project selects, obtains, and tracks
its dependencies.

**[OSPS-GV-01.01](#osps-gv-0101)**: While active, the [project documentation] MUST include a list of
project members with access to sensitive resources.

**[OSPS-GV-01.02](#osps-gv-0102)**: While active, the [project documentation] MUST include descriptions of
the roles and responsibilities for members of the project.

**[OSPS-GV-03.02](#osps-gv-0302)**: While active, the [project documentation] MUST include a guide for code
[contributors] that includes requirements for acceptable contributions.

**[OSPS-LE-01.01](#osps-le-0101)**: While active, the [version control system] MUST require all code
[contributors] to assert that they are legally authorized to make the
associated contributions on every [commit].

**[OSPS-QA-03.01](#osps-qa-0301)**: When a [commit] is made to the [primary branch], any automated status
checks for [commits] MUST pass or be manually bypassed.

**[OSPS-QA-06.01](#osps-qa-0601)**: Prior to a [commit] being accepted, the project&#39;s [CI/CD pipelines] MUST
run at least one [automated test suite] to ensure the [changes] meet
expectations.

**[OSPS-SA-01.01](#osps-sa-0101)**: When the project has made a [release], the [project documentation] MUST
include design documentation demonstrating all actions and actors
within the system.

**[OSPS-SA-02.01](#osps-sa-0201)**: When the project has made a [release], the [project documentation] MUST
include descriptions of all external software interfaces of the
[released software assets].

**[OSPS-SA-03.01](#osps-sa-0301)**: When the project has made a [release], the project MUST perform a
security assessment to understand the most likely and impactful
potential security problems that could occur within the software.

**[OSPS-VM-01.01](#osps-vm-0101)**: While active, the [project documentation] MUST
include a policy for coordinated [vulnerability reporting], with a clear
timeframe for response.

**[OSPS-VM-03.01](#osps-vm-0301)**: While active, the [project documentation] MUST
provide a means for reporting security vulnerabilities privately to
the security contacts within the project.

**[OSPS-VM-04.01](#osps-vm-0401)**: While active, the [project documentation] MUST
publicly publish data about discovered vulnerabilities.


### Level 3

**[OSPS-AC-04.02](#osps-ac-0402)**: When a job is assigned permissions in a [CI/CD pipeline], the source
code or configuration MUST only assign the minimum privileges
necessary for the corresponding activity.

**[OSPS-BR-02.01](#osps-br-0201)**: When an official [release] is created, all assets within that [release]
MUST be clearly associated with the [release] identifier or another
unique identifier for the asset.

**[OSPS-DO-03.01](#osps-do-0301)**: When the project has made a [release], the [project documentation] MUST
contain instructions to verify the integrity and authenticity of the
[release] assets.

**[OSPS-DO-04.01](#osps-do-0401)**: When the project has made a [release], the [project documentation] MUST
include a descriptive statement about the scope and duration of
support for each [release].

**[OSPS-DO-05.01](#osps-do-0501)**: When the project has made a [release], the [project documentation] MUST
provide a descriptive statement when [releases] or versions will no
longer receive security updates.

**[OSPS-GV-04.01](#osps-gv-0401)**: While active, the [project documentation] MUST have a policy that code
[contributors] are reviewed prior to granting escalated permissions to
sensitive resources.

**[OSPS-QA-02.02](#osps-qa-0202)**: When the project has made a [release], all compiled released software
assets MUST be delivered with a [software bill of materials].

**[OSPS-QA-04.02](#osps-qa-0402)**: When the project has made a [release] comprising multiple source code
[repositories], all [subprojects] MUST enforce security requirements that
are as strict or stricter than the primary [codebase].

**[OSPS-QA-06.02](#osps-qa-0602)**: While active, project&#39;s documentation MUST clearly document when and
how tests are run.

**[OSPS-QA-06.03](#osps-qa-0603)**: While active, the project&#39;s documentation MUST include a policy that
all major [changes] to the software produced by the project should add
or update tests of the functionality in an [automated test suite].

**[OSPS-QA-07.01](#osps-qa-0701)**: When a [commit] is made to the [primary branch], the project&#39;s version
control system MUST require at least one non-author approval of the
[changes] before merging.

**[OSPS-SA-03.02](#osps-sa-0302)**: When the project has made a [release], the project MUST perform a threat
modeling and [attack surface analysis] to understand and protect against
attacks on critical code paths, functions, and interactions within the
system.

**[OSPS-VM-04.02](#osps-vm-0402)**: While active, any vulnerabilities in the
software components not affecting the project MUST be accounted for
in a VEX document, augmenting the vulnerability report with
non-exploitability details.

**[OSPS-VM-05.01](#osps-vm-0501)**: While active, the [project documentation] MUST include a policy that
defines a threshold for remediation of [SCA] findings related to
vulnerabilities and [licenses].

**[OSPS-VM-05.02](#osps-vm-0502)**: While active, the [project documentation] MUST include a policy to
address [SCA] violations prior to any [release].

**[OSPS-VM-05.03](#osps-vm-0503)**: While active, all [changes] to the project&#39;s [codebase] MUST be
automatically evaluated against a documented policy for malicious
dependencies and [known vulnerabilities] in dependencies, then blocked
in the event of violations, except when declared and suppressed as
non-exploitable.

**[OSPS-VM-06.01](#osps-vm-0601)**: While active, the [project documentation] MUST include a policy that
defines a threshold for remediation of SAST findings.

**[OSPS-VM-06.02](#osps-vm-0602)**: While active, all [changes] to the project&#39;s [codebase] MUST be
automatically evaluated against a documented policy for security
weaknesses and blocked in the event of violations except when declared
and suppressed as non-exploitable.




## Access Control

Access Control focuses on the mechanisms and
policies that control access to the project&#39;s version
control system and CI/CD pipelines. These controls help
ensure that only authorized users can access sensitive
data, modify repository settings, or execute build and
release processes.




### OSPS-AC-01 - The project&#39;s [version control system] MUST require multi-factor authentication for [collaborators] modifying the project [repository] settings or accessing sensitive data. 

Reduce the risk of account compromise or insider threats by requiring
multi-factor authentication for collaborators modifying the project
repository settings or accessing sensitive data.




#### OSPS-AC-01.01

**Requirement:** When a user attempts to access a sensitive resource in the project&#39;s [version control system], the system MUST require the user to complete a [multi-factor authentication] process. 

**Recommendation:** Enforce multi-factor authentication for the project&#39;s version
control system, requiring collaborators to provide a second form of
authentication when accessing sensitive data or modifying repository
settings. Passkeys are acceptable for this control.


- Lv1
- Lv2
- Lv3




#### External Framework Mappings

  - **[BPB]**: CC-G-1

  - **[CRA]**: 1.2d, 1.2e, 1.2f

  - **[SSDF]**: PO3.2, PS1

  - **[CSF]**: PR.A-02

  - **[OCRE]**: 486-813, 124-564, 347-352, 333-858, 152-725, 201-246


---

### OSPS-AC-02 - The project&#39;s [version control system] MUST restrict [collaborator] permissions to the lowest available privileges by default. 

Reduce the risk of unauthorized access to the project&#39;s repository by
limiting the permissions granted to new collaborators.




#### OSPS-AC-02.01

**Requirement:** When a new [collaborator] is added, the [version control system] MUST require manual permission assignment, or restrict the [collaborator] permissions to the lowest available privileges by default. 

**Recommendation:** Most public version control systems are configured in this manner.
Ensure the project&#39;s version control system always assigns the lowest
available permissions to collaborators by default when added, granting
additional permissions only when necessary.


- Lv1
- Lv2
- Lv3




#### External Framework Mappings

  - **[CRA]**: 1.2f

  - **[SSDF]**: PO3.2, PS1

  - **[CSF]**: PR:AA-02

  - **[OCRE]**: 486-813, 124-564, 802-056, 368-633, 152-725


---

### OSPS-AC-03 - The project&#39;s [version control system] MUST prevent unintentional modification of the [primary branch]. 

Reduce the risk of accidental changes or deletion of the primary branch
of the project&#39;s repository by preventing unintentional modification.




#### OSPS-AC-03.01

**Requirement:** When a direct [commit] is attempted on the project&#39;s [primary branch], an enforcement mechanism MUST prevent the [change] from being applied. 

**Recommendation:** If the VCS is centralized, set branch protection on the primary branch
in the project&#39;s VCS. Alternatively, use a decentralized approach,
like the Linux kernel&#39;s, where changes are first proposed in another
repository, and merging changes into the primary repository requires a
specific separate act.


- Lv1
- Lv2
- Lv3




#### OSPS-AC-03.02

**Requirement:** When an attempt is made to delete the project&#39;s [primary branch], the [version control system] MUST treat this as a sensitive activity and require explicit confirmation of intent. 

**Recommendation:** Set branch protection on the primary branch in the project&#39;s version
control system to prevent deletion.


- Lv1
- Lv2
- Lv3




#### External Framework Mappings

  - **[CRA]**: 1.2f

  - **[SSDF]**: PO3.2, PS1

  - **[CSF]**: PR.A-02

  - **[OCRE]**: 486-813, 124-564, 123-124, 152-725


---

### OSPS-AC-04 - The project&#39;s permissions in [CI/CD pipelines] MUST follow the principle of least privilege. 

Reduce the risk of unauthorized access to the project&#39;s build and release
processes by limiting the permissions granted to steps within the CI/CD
pipelines.




#### OSPS-AC-04.01

**Requirement:** When a CI/CD task is executed with no permissions specified, the project&#39;s [version control system] MUST default to the lowest available permissions for all activities in the pipeline. 

**Recommendation:** Configure the project&#39;s settings to assign the lowest available
permissions to new pipelines by default, granting additional
permissions only when necessary for specific tasks.


- Lv2
- Lv3




#### OSPS-AC-04.02

**Requirement:** When a job is assigned permissions in a [CI/CD pipeline], the source code or configuration MUST only assign the minimum privileges necessary for the corresponding activity. 

**Recommendation:** Configure the project&#39;s CI/CD pipelines to assign the lowest available
permissions to users and services by default, elevating permissions
only when necessary for specific tasks. In some version control
systems, this may be possible at the organizational or repository
level. If not, set permissions at the top level of the pipeline.


- Lv3




#### External Framework Mappings

  - **[CRA]**: 1.2d, 1.2e, 1.2f

  - **[SSDF]**: PO2, PO3.2, PS1

  - **[CSF]**: PR.AA-02, PR.AA-05

  - **[OCRE]**: 486-813, 124-564, 347-507, 263-284, 123-124


---

## Build and Release

Build and Release focuses on the processes and
tools used to compile, package, and distribute the
project&#39;s software. These controls help ensure that the
project&#39;s build and release pipelines are secure,
consistent, and reliable, reducing the risk of
vulnerabilities or errors in the software distribution
process.




### OSPS-BR-01 - The project&#39;s [build and release pipelines] MUST NOT permit untrusted input that allows access to privileged resources. 

Reduce the risk of code injection or other security vulnerabilities in the
project&#39;s build and release pipelines by preventing untrusted input from
accessing privileged resources.




#### OSPS-BR-01.01

**Requirement:** When a [CI/CD pipeline] accepts an input parameter, that parameter MUST be sanitized and validated prior to use in the pipeline. 

**Recommendation:** 

- Lv1
- Lv2
- Lv3




#### OSPS-BR-01.01

**Requirement:** When a [CI/CD pipeline] uses a branch name in its functionality, that name value MUST be sanitized and validated prior to use in the pipeline. 

**Recommendation:** 





#### External Framework Mappings

  - **[CRA]**: 1.2f

  - **[SSDF]**: PO3.2, PS1

  - **[CSF]**: PR.AA-02

  - **[OCRE]**: 486-813, 124-564, 357-352


---

### OSPS-BR-02 - All [releases] and [released software assets] MUST be assigned a unique [version identifier] for each [release] intended to be used by users. 

Ensure that each software asset produced by the project is uniquely
identified, enabling users to track changes and updates to the project
over time.




#### OSPS-BR-02.01

**Requirement:** When an official [release] is created, that [release] MUST be assigned a unique [version identifier]. 

**Recommendation:** Assign a unique version identifier to each release produced by the
project, following a consistent naming convention or numbering scheme.
Examples include SemVer, CalVer, or git commit id.


- Lv2
- Lv3




#### OSPS-BR-02.01

**Requirement:** When an official [release] is created, all assets within that [release] MUST be clearly associated with the [release] identifier or another unique identifier for the asset. 

**Recommendation:** Assign a unique version identifier to each software asset produced by
the project, following a consistent naming convention or numbering
scheme. Examples include SemVer, CalVer, or git commit id.


- Lv3




#### External Framework Mappings

  - **[BPB]**: CC-B-5, CC-B-6, CC-B-7

  - **[CRA]**: 1.2f

  - **[SSDF]**: PO3.2, PS1, PS2, PS3

  - **[OCRE]**: 486-813, 124-564


---

### OSPS-BR-03 - All official project URIs MUST be delivered using encrypted channels. 

Protect the confidentiality and integrity of project source code during
development, reducing the risk of eavesdropping or data tampering.




#### OSPS-BR-03.01

**Requirement:** When the project lists a URI as an official project channel, that URI MUST be exclusively delivered using encrypted channels. 

**Recommendation:** Configure the project&#39;s websites and version control systems to use
encrypted channels such as SSH or HTTPS for data transmission.
Ensure all tools and domains referenced in project documentation can
only be accessed via encrypted channels.


- Lv1
- Lv2
- Lv3




#### OSPS-BR-03.01

**Requirement:** When the project lists a URI as an official distribution channel, that URI MUST be exclusively delivered using encrypted channels. 

**Recommendation:** Configure the project&#39;s release pipeline to only fetch data from
websites, API responses, and other services which use encrypted
channels such as SSH or HTTPS for data transmission.






#### External Framework Mappings

  - **[BPB]**: B-B-11

  - **[CRA]**: 1.2d, 1.2e, 1.2f, 1.2i, 1.2j, 1.2k

  - **[SSDF]**: PO3.2, PS1

  - **[OCRE]**: 483-813, 124-564, 263-184


---

### OSPS-BR-04 - All [releases] MUST provide a descriptive log of functional and security modifications. 

Provide transparency and accountability for changes made to the project&#39;s
software releases, enabling users to understand the modifications and
improvements included in each release.




#### OSPS-BR-04.01

**Requirement:** When an official [release] is created, that [release] MUST contain a descriptive log of functional and security modifications. 

**Recommendation:** Ensure that all releases include a descriptive change log. It is
recommended to ensure that the change log is human-readable and
includes details beyond commit messages, such as descriptions of the
security impact or relevance to different use cases. To ensure
machine readability, place the content under a markdown header
such as &#34;## Changelog&#34;.


- Lv2
- Lv3




#### External Framework Mappings

  - **[BPB]**: CC-B-8, CC-B-9

  - **[CRA]**: 1.2l, 2.2

  - **[SSDF]**: PS1, PS2, PS3, PW1.2

  - **[OCRE]**: 486-813, 124-564, 745-356


---

### OSPS-BR-05 - All [build and release pipelines] MUST use standardized tooling where available to ingest dependencies at build time. 

Ensure that the project&#39;s build and release pipelines use standardized tools
and processes to manage dependencies, reducing the risk of compatibility
issues or security vulnerabilities in the software.




#### OSPS-BR-05.01

**Requirement:** When a [build and release pipeline] ingests dependencies, it MUST use standardized tooling where available. 

**Recommendation:** Use a common tooling for your ecosystem, such as package managers or
dependency management tools to ingest dependencies at build time. This
may include using a dependency file, lock file, or manifest to specify
the required dependencies, which are then pulled in by the build
system.


- Lv2
- Lv3




#### External Framework Mappings

  - **[BPB]**: Q-B-2

  - **[CRA]**: 1.2b, 1.2d, 1.2f, 1.2h, 1.2j, 2.1

  - **[SSDF]**: PO3.2, PS1

  - **[OCRE]**: 486-813, 124-564, 347-352, 715-334


---

### OSPS-BR-06 - Produce all [released software assets] with signatures and hashes 

All released software assets MUST be signed or accounted for in a
signed manifest including each asset&#39;s cryptographic hashes.




#### OSPS-BR-06.01

**Requirement:** When an official [release] is created, that [release] MUST be signed or accounted for in a signed manifest including each asset&#39;s cryptographic hashes. 

**Recommendation:** Sign all released software assets at build time with a cryptographic
signature or attestations, such as GPG or PGP signature, Sigstore
signatures, SLSA provenance, or SLSA VSAs. Include the cryptographic
hashes of each asset in a signed manifest or metadata file.


- Lv2
- Lv3




#### External Framework Mappings

  - **[SSDF]**: PO5.2, PS2.1, PW6.2


---

## Documentation

Documentation focuses on the information
provided to users, contributors, and maintainers
of the project. These controls help ensure that
the project&#39;s documentation is comprehensive,
accurate, and up-to-date, enabling users to
understand the project&#39;s features and functionality.




### OSPS-DO-01 - The [project documentation] MUST provide user guides for all basic functionality. 

Ensure that users have a clear and comprehensive understanding of the
project&#39;s current features in order to prevent damage from misuse or
misconfiguration.




#### OSPS-DO-01.01

**Requirement:** When the project has made a [release], the [project documentation] MUST include user guides for all basic functionality. 

**Recommendation:** Create user guides or documentation for all basic functionality of the
project, explaining how to install, configure, and use the project&#39;s
features. If there are any known dangerous or destructive actions
available, include highly-visible warnings.


- Lv1
- Lv2
- Lv3




#### External Framework Mappings

  - **[BPB]**: B-B-1, B-B-9, B-S-7, B-S-9

  - **[CRA]**: 1.2b, 1.2j, 1.2k

  - **[SSDF]**: PW1.2

  - **[CSF]**: GV.OC-04, GV.OC-05

  - **[OC]**: 4.1.4

  - **[OCRE]**: 036-275


---

### OSPS-DO-02 - The project MUST provide a mechanism for reporting [defects]. 

Enable users and contributors to report defects or issues with the
released software assets, facilitating communication and collaboration on
defect fixes and improvements.




#### OSPS-DO-02.01

**Requirement:** When the project has made a [release], the [project documentation] MUST include a guide for reporting [defects]. 

**Recommendation:** It is recommended that projects use their VCS default issue tracker.
If an external source is used, ensure that the project documentation
and contributing guide clearly and visibly explain how to use the
reporting system. It is recommended that project documentation also
sets expectations for how defects will be triaged and resolved.


- Lv1
- Lv2
- Lv3




#### External Framework Mappings

  - **[BPB]**: B-B-3, R-B-1&#43;, R-B-1, R-B-2, R-S-2

  - **[CRA]**: 1.2c, 1.2l, 2.1, 2.2, 2.5, 2.6

  - **[SSDF]**: PW1.2, RV1.1, RV2.1, RV1.2

  - **[CSF]**: RS.MA-02, GV.RM-05

  - **[OC]**: 4.2.1


---

### OSPS-DO-03 - The [project documentation] MUST contain instructions to verify the integrity and authenticity of the [release] assets, including the expected identity of the person or process authoring the software [release]. 

Enable users to verify the authenticity and integrity of the project&#39;s
released software assets, reducing the risk of using tampered or
unauthorized versions of the software.




#### OSPS-DO-03.01

**Requirement:** When the project has made a [release], the [project documentation] MUST contain instructions to verify the integrity and authenticity of the [release] assets. 

**Recommendation:** Instructions in the project should contain information about the
technology used, the commands to run, and the expected output.
When possible, avoid storing this documentation in the same location
as the build and release pipeline to avoid a single breach
compromising both the software and the documentation for verifying the
integrity of the software.


- Lv3




#### OSPS-DO-03.02

**Requirement:** When the project has made a [release], the [project documentation] MUST contain instructions to verify the expected identity of the person or process authoring the software [release]. 

**Recommendation:** The expected identity may be in the form of key IDs used to sign,
issuer and identity from a sigstore certificate, or other similar
forms.
When possible, avoid storing this documentation in the same location
as the build and release pipeline to avoid a single breach
compromising both the software and the documentation for verifying the
integrity of the software.






#### External Framework Mappings

  - **[BPB]**: CC-B-8

  - **[CRA]**: 1.2d

  - **[SSDF]**: PO4.2, PS.2, PS2.1, PS3.1, RV1.3

  - **[OCRE]**: 171-222


---

### OSPS-DO-04 - The [project documentation] MUST include a descriptive statement about the scope and duration of support. 

Provide users with clear expectations regarding the project&#39;s support
lifecycle. This allows downstream consumers to take relevant actions to
ensure the continued functionality and security of their systems.




#### OSPS-DO-04.01

**Requirement:** When the project has made a [release], the [project documentation] MUST include a descriptive statement about the scope and duration of support for each [release]. 

**Recommendation:** In order to communicate the scope and duration of support for the
project&#39;s released software assets, the project should have a
SUPPORT.md or an OpenEoX file in a well known location.


- Lv3




#### External Framework Mappings

  - **[BPB]**: R-B-3

  - **[SSDF]**: PO4.2, PS3.1, RV1.3

  - **[OC]**: 4.1, 4.3.1


---

### OSPS-DO-05 - The [project documentation] MUST provide a descriptive statement when [releases] or versions will no longer receive security updates. 

Communicating when the project maintainers will no longer fix defects or
security vulnerabilities is crucial for downstream consumers to find
alternative solutions or alternative means of support for the project.




#### OSPS-DO-05.01

**Requirement:** When the project has made a [release], the [project documentation] MUST provide a descriptive statement when [releases] or versions will no longer receive security updates. 

**Recommendation:** While a machine-readable OpenEoX file is recommended, this may also be
communicated in a SUPPORT.md or beneath a Support header in the
primary README.md.


- Lv3




#### External Framework Mappings

  - **[CRA]**: 1.2c, 2.6

  - **[OC]**: 4.1.1, 4.3.1

  - **[OCRE]**: 673-475, 053-751


---

### OSPS-DO-06 - The [project documentation] MUST include a description of how the project selects, obtains, and tracks its dependencies. 

Provide information about how the project selects, obtains, and tracks
dependencies, libraries, frameworks, etc. to help downstream consumers
understand how the project operates in regards to third-party components
that are required necessary for the software to function.




#### OSPS-DO-06.01

**Requirement:** When the project has made a [release], the [project documentation] MUST include a description of how the project selects, obtains, and tracks its dependencies. 

**Recommendation:** It is recommended to publish this information alongside the project&#39;s
technical &amp; design documentation on a publicly viewable resource such
as the source code repository, project website, or other channel.

- Lv2
- Lv3




#### External Framework Mappings

  - **[BPB]**: A-S-1

  - **[CRA]**: 2.1

  - **[OCRE]**: 613-286, 053-751


---

## Governance

Governance focuses on the policies and
procedures that guide the project&#39;s decision-making
and community interactions. These controls help ensure
that the project is well positioned to respond to
both threats and opportunities.




### OSPS-GV-01 - The [project documentation] MUST include the roles and responsibilities for members of the project. 

Documenting project roles and responsibilities helps project participants,
potential contributors, and downstream consumers have an accurate
understanding of who is working on the project and what areas of authority
they may have.




#### OSPS-GV-01.01

**Requirement:** While active, the [project documentation] MUST include a list of project members with access to sensitive resources. 

**Recommendation:** Document project participants and their roles through such artifacts
as members.md, governance.md, maintainers.md, or similar file within
the source code repository of the project.
This may be as simple as including names or account handles in a list
of maintainers, or more complex depending on the project&#39;s governance.


- Lv2
- Lv3




#### OSPS-GV-01.02

**Requirement:** While active, the [project documentation] MUST include descriptions of the roles and responsibilities for members of the project. 

**Recommendation:** Document project participants and their roles through such artifacts
as members.md, governance.md, maintainers.md, or similar file within
the source code repository of the project.


- Lv2
- Lv3




#### External Framework Mappings

  - **[BPB]**: B-S-3, B-S-4

  - **[OCRE]**: 013-021


---

### OSPS-GV-02 - The project MUST have one or more mechanisms for public discussions about proposed [changes] and usage obstacles. 

Encourages open communication and collaboration within the project
community, enabling users to provide feedback and discuss proposed changes
or usage challenges.




#### OSPS-GV-02.01

**Requirement:** While active, the project MUST have one or more mechanisms for public discussions about proposed [changes] and usage obstacles. 

**Recommendation:** Establish one or more mechanisms for public discussions within the
project, such as mailing lists, instant messaging, or issue trackers,
to facilitate open communication and feedback.


- Lv1
- Lv2
- Lv3




#### External Framework Mappings

  - **[BPB]**: B-B-3, B-B-12

  - **[CRA]**: 1.2l, 2.3, 2.4, 2.6

  - **[SSDF]**: PS3, PW1.2


---

### OSPS-GV-03 - The [project documentation] MUST include an explanation of the contribution process. 

Provide guidance to new contributors on how to participate in the project,
outlining the steps required to submit changes or enhancements to the
project&#39;s codebase.




#### OSPS-GV-03.01

**Requirement:** While active, the [project documentation] MUST include an explanation of the contribution process. 

**Recommendation:** Create a CONTRIBUTING.md or CONTRIBUTING/ directory to outline the
contribution process including the steps for submitting changes, and
engaging with the project maintainers.


- Lv1




#### OSPS-GV-03.02

**Requirement:** While active, the [project documentation] MUST include a guide for code [contributors] that includes requirements for acceptable contributions. 

**Recommendation:** Extend the CONTRIBUTING.md or CONTRIBUTING/ contents in the project
documentation to outline the requirements for acceptable
contributions, including coding standards, testing requirements, and
submission guidelines for code contributors. It is recommended that
this guide is the source of truth for both contributors and approvers.


- Lv2
- Lv3




#### External Framework Mappings

  - **[BPB]**: B-B-4, B-S-3, B-B-4&#43;, R-B-1, Q-G-2

  - **[CRA]**: 1.2l, 2.4, 2.1, 2.2, 2.5, 2.6

  - **[SSDF]**: PW1.2

  - **[OC]**: 4.1.2


---

### OSPS-GV-04 - The [project documentation] MUST have a policy that code [contributors] are reviewed prior to granting escalated permissions to sensitive resources. 

Ensure that code contributors are vetted and reviewed before being granted
elevated permissions to sensitive resources within the project, reducing
the risk of unauthorized access or misuse.




#### OSPS-GV-04.01

**Requirement:** While active, the [project documentation] MUST have a policy that code [contributors] are reviewed prior to granting escalated permissions to sensitive resources. 

**Recommendation:** Publish an enforceable policy in the project documentation that
requires code contributors to be reviewed and approved before being
granted escalated permissions to sensitive resources, such as merge
approval or access to secrets. It is recommended that vetting includes
establishing a justifiable lineage of identity such as confirming the
contributor&#39;s association with a known trusted organization.

- Lv3




#### External Framework Mappings

  - **[CRA]**: 1.2d

  - **[SSDF]**: PO2, PO3.2

  - **[CSF]**: PR.AA-02, PR.AA-05

  - **[OCRE]**: 123-124, 152-725


---

## Legal

Legal focuses on the policies and
procedures that govern the project&#39;s licensing
and intellectual property. These controls help
ensure that the project&#39;s source code is
distributed under a recognized and legally
enforceable open source software license,
reducing the risk of intellectual property
disputes or licensing violations.




### OSPS-LE-01 - The [version control system] MUST require all code [contributors] to assert that they are legally authorized to make the associated contributions on every [commit]. 

Ensure that code contributors are aware of and acknowledge their legal
responsibility for the contributions they make to the project, reducing
the risk of intellectual property disputes against the project.




#### OSPS-LE-01.01

**Requirement:** While active, the [version control system] MUST require all code [contributors] to assert that they are legally authorized to make the associated contributions on every [commit]. 

**Recommendation:** Include a DCO or CLA in the project&#39;s repository, requiring code
contributors to assert that they are legally authorized to commit the
associated contributions on every commit. Use a status check to ensure
the assertion is made.
Some version control systems, such as GitHub, may include this in the
platform terms of service.


- Lv2
- Lv3




#### External Framework Mappings

  - **[BPB]**: B-S-1

  - **[CRA]**: 1.2b, 1.2f

  - **[SSDF]**: PO3.2, PS1, PW1.2, PW2.1


---

### OSPS-LE-02 - All [licenses] for the project MUST meet the OSI Open Source Definition or the FSF Free Software Definition. 

Ensure that the project&#39;s source code is distributed under a recognized
and legally enforceable open source software license, providing clarity on
how the code can be used and shared by others.




#### OSPS-LE-02.01

**Requirement:** While active, the [license] for the source code MUST meet the OSI Open Source Definition or the FSF Free Software Definition. 

**Recommendation:** Add a LICENSE file to the project&#39;s repo with a license that is an
approved license by the Open Source Initiative (OSI), or a free
license as approved by the Free Software Foundation (FSF). Examples of
such licenses include the MIT, BSD 2-clause, BSD 3-clause revised,
Apache 2.0, Lesser GNU General Public License (LGPL), and the GNU
General Public License (GPL). Releasing to the public domain meets
this control if there are no other encumbrances such as patents.


- Lv1
- Lv2
- Lv3




#### OSPS-LE-02.02

**Requirement:** While active, the [license] for the [released software assets] MUST meet the OSI Open Source Definition or the FSF Free Software Definition. 

**Recommendation:** If a different license is included with released software assets,
ensure it is an approved license by the Open Source Initiative (OSI),
or a free license as approved by the Free Software Foundation (FSF).
Examples of such licenses include the MIT, BSD 2-clause, BSD 3-clause
revised, Apache 2.0, Lesser GNU General Public License (LGPL), and the
GNU General Public License (GPL). Note that the license for the
released software assets may be different than the source code.


- Lv1
- Lv2
- Lv3




#### External Framework Mappings

  - **[BPB]**: B-B-6, B-B-7

  - **[CRA]**: 1.2b

  - **[SSDF]**: PO3.2

  - **[CSF]**: GV.OC-03


---

### OSPS-LE-03 - All [licenses] for the project&#39;s source code MUST be maintained in a  standard location within the corresponding [repository]. 

Ensure that the project&#39;s source code and released software assets are
distributed with the appropriate license terms, making it clear to users
and contributors how each can be used and shared.




#### OSPS-LE-03.01

**Requirement:** While active, the [license] for the source code MUST be maintained in the corresponding [repository]&#39;s [LICENSE] file, COPYING file, or [LICENSE]/ directory. 

**Recommendation:** Include the project&#39;s source code license in the project&#39;s LICENSE
file, COPYING file, or LICENSE/ directory to provide visibility and
clarity on the licensing terms. The filename MAY have an extension.
If the project has multiple repositories, ensure that each repository
includes the license file.


- Lv1
- Lv2
- Lv3




#### OSPS-LE-03.02

**Requirement:** While active, the [license] for the [released software assets] MUST be included in the released source code, or in a [LICENSE] file, COPYING file, or [LICENSE]/ directory alongside the corresponding [release] assets. 

**Recommendation:** Include the project&#39;s released software assets license in the released
source code, or in a LICENSE file, COPYING file, or LICENSE/ directory
alongside the corresponding release assets to provide visibility and
clarity on the licensing terms. The filename MAY have an extension.
If the project has multiple repositories, ensure that each repository
includes the license file.

- Lv1
- Lv2
- Lv3




#### External Framework Mappings

  - **[BPB]**: B-B-6, B-B-7, B-B-8

  - **[CRA]**: 1.2b

  - **[SSDF]**: PO3.2


---

## Quality

Quality focuses on the processes and
practices used to ensure the quality and
reliability of the project&#39;s source code and
software assets. These controls help ensure
that the project&#39;s source code is well
maintained, secure, and reliable, reducing the
risk of defects or vulnerabilities in the
software.




### OSPS-QA-01 - The project&#39;s source code and [change] history MUST be publicly readable at a static URL. 

Enable users to access and review the project&#39;s source code and history,
promoting transparency and collaboration within the project community.




#### OSPS-QA-01.01

**Requirement:** While active, the project&#39;s source code [repository] MUST be publicly readable at a static URL. 

**Recommendation:** Use a common VCS such as GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket. Ensure the
repository is publicly readable. Avoid duplication or mirroring of
repositories unless highly visible documentation clarifies the primary
source. Avoid frequent changes to the repository that would impact the
repository URL. Ensure the repository is public.


- Lv1
- Lv2
- Lv3




#### OSPS-QA-01.02

**Requirement:** The [version control system] MUST contain a publicly readable record of all [changes] made, who made the [changes], and when the [changes] were made. 

**Recommendation:** Use a common VCS such as GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket to maintain a
publicly readable commit history. Avoid squashing or rewriting commits
in a way that would obscure the author of any commits.


- Lv1
- Lv2
- Lv3




#### External Framework Mappings

  - **[BPB]**: CC-B-1, CC-B-2, CC-B-3, R-B-5

  - **[CRA]**: 1.2b, 1.2j, 1.2f

  - **[SSDF]**: PS1, PS2, PS3, PW1.2, PW2.1

  - **[OCRE]**: 486-813, 124-564, 757-271

  - **[CSF]**: ID.AM-02, ID.RA-01, ID.RA-08

  - **[OC]**: 4.1.4


---

### OSPS-QA-02 - The project MUST provide a list of dependencies used in the software. 

Provide transparency and accountability for the project&#39;s dependencies
while enabling users and contributors to understand the software&#39;s direct
dependencies.




#### OSPS-QA-02.01

**Requirement:** When the package management system supports it, the source code [repository] MUST contain a dependency list that accounts for the direct language dependencies. 

**Recommendation:** This may take the form a package manager or language dependency file
that enumerates all direct dependencies such as package.json, Gemfile,
or go.mod.


- Lv1
- Lv2
- Lv3




#### OSPS-QA-02.02

**Requirement:** When the project has made a [release], all compiled released software assets MUST be delivered with a [software bill of materials]. 

**Recommendation:** It is recommended to auto-generate SBOMs at build time using a tool
that has been vetted for accuracy. This enables users to ingest this
data in a standardized approach alongside other projects in their
environment.


- Lv3




#### External Framework Mappings

  - **[BPB]**: Q-S-8, Q-S-9

  - **[CRA]**: 2.1, 2.3

  - **[SSDF]**: PO3.3, PS1, PS3.2

  - **[CSF]**: ID.M-02

  - **[OC]**: 4.1.5, 4.3.1

  - **[OCRE]**: 486-813, 124-564, 673-475, 863-521, 613-286


---

### OSPS-QA-03 - Any automated [status checks] for [commits] MUST pass or require manual acknowledgement prior to merge. 

Ensure that the project&#39;s approvers do not become accustomed to tolerating
failing status checks, even if arbitrary, because it increases the risk of
overlooking security vulnerabilities or defects identified by automated
checks.




#### OSPS-QA-03.01

**Requirement:** When a [commit] is made to the [primary branch], any automated status checks for [commits] MUST pass or be manually bypassed. 

**Recommendation:** Configure the project&#39;s version control system to require that all
automated status checks pass or require manual acknowledgement before a
commit can be merged into the primary branch. It is recommended that
any optional status checks are NOT configured as a pass or fail
requirement that approvers may be tempted to bypass.


- Lv2
- Lv3




#### External Framework Mappings

  - **[CRA]**: 1.2f, 1.2k

  - **[SSDF]**: PO4.1, PS1

  - **[CSF]**: ID.IM-02


---

### OSPS-QA-04 - Any additional [subproject] code [repositories] produced by the project and compiled into a [release] MUST enforce security requirements as applicable to the status and intent of the respective [codebase]. 

Ensure that additional code repositories or subprojects produced by the
project are held to a standard that is clear and appropriate for that
codebase.




#### OSPS-QA-04.01

**Requirement:** While active, the [project documentation] MUST contain a list of any [codebases] that are considered [subprojects] or additional [repositories]. 

**Recommendation:** Document any additional subproject code repositories produced by the
project and compiled into a release. This documentation should include
the status and intent of the respective codebase.


- Lv1




#### OSPS-QA-04.02

**Requirement:** When the project has made a [release] comprising multiple source code [repositories], all [subprojects] MUST enforce security requirements that are as strict or stricter than the primary [codebase]. 

**Recommendation:** Any additional subproject code repositories produced by the project
and compiled into a release must enforce security requirements as
applicable to the status and intent of the respective codebase.
In addition to following the corresponding OSPS Baseline requirements,
this may include requiring a security review, ensuring that it is
free of vulnerabilities, and ensuring that it is free of known
security issues.


- Lv3




#### External Framework Mappings

  - **[CRA]**: 1.2b, 1.2f

  - **[SSDF]**: PO3.2, PO4.1, PS1

  - **[OCRE]**: 486-813, 124-564


---

### OSPS-QA-05 - The [version control system] MUST NOT contain generated executable artifacts. 

Reduce the risk of including generated executable artifacts in the
project&#39;s version control system, ensuring that only source code and
necessary files are stored in the repository.




#### OSPS-QA-05.01

**Requirement:** While active, the [version control system] MUST NOT contain generated executable artifacts. 

**Recommendation:** Remove generated executable artifacts in the project&#39;s version control
system. It is recommended that any scenario where a generated
executable artifact appears critical to a process such as testing, it
should be instead be generated at build time or stored separately and
fetched during a specific well-documented pipeline step.


- Lv1
- Lv2
- Lv3




#### External Framework Mappings

  - **[CRA]**: 1.2b

  - **[SSDF]**: PS1

  - **[OCRE]**: 486-813, 124-564


---

### OSPS-QA-06 - The project MUST use at least one [automated test suite] for the source code [repository]. 

Ensure that the project uses at least one automated test suite for the
source code repository which clearly documents when and how tests are run.




#### OSPS-QA-06.01

**Requirement:** Prior to a [commit] being accepted, the project&#39;s [CI/CD pipelines] MUST run at least one [automated test suite] to ensure the [changes] meet expectations. 

**Recommendation:** Automated tests should be run prior to every merge into the primary
branch. The test suite should be run in a CI/CD pipeline and the
results should be visible to all contributors. The test suite should
be run in a consistent environment and should be run in a way that
allows contributors to run the tests locally.
Examples of test suites include unit tests, integration tests, and
end-to-end tests.


- Lv2
- Lv3




#### OSPS-QA-06.02

**Requirement:** While active, project&#39;s documentation MUST clearly document when and how tests are run. 

**Recommendation:** Add a section to the contributing documentation that explains how to
run the tests locally and how to run the tests in the CI/CD pipeline.
The documentation should explain what the tests are testing and how to
interpret the results.


- Lv3




#### OSPS-QA-06.03

**Requirement:** While active, the project&#39;s documentation MUST include a policy that all major [changes] to the software produced by the project should add or update tests of the functionality in an [automated test suite]. 

**Recommendation:** Add a section to the contributing documentation that explains the
policy for adding or updating tests. The policy should explain what
constitutes a major change and what tests should be added or updated.


- Lv3




#### External Framework Mappings

  - **[BPB]**: Q-B-4, Q-B-8, Q-B-9, Q-B-10, Q-S-2

  - **[CRA]**: 2.3

  - **[SSDF]**: PW8.2

  - **[OC]**: 4.1.5

  - **[OCRE]**: 207-435, 088-377


---

### OSPS-QA-07 - The project&#39;s [version control system] MUST require at least one non-author approval of [changes] to the [primary branch]. 

Ensure that the project&#39;s version control system requires at least one
non-author approval of changes before merging into the release or primary
branch.




#### OSPS-QA-07.01

**Requirement:** When a [commit] is made to the [primary branch], the project&#39;s version control system MUST require at least one non-author approval of the [changes] before merging. 

**Recommendation:** Configure the project&#39;s version control system to require at least one
non-author approval of changes before merging into the release or
primary branch. This can be achieved by requiring a pull request to be
reviewed and approved by at least one other contributor before it can
be merged.


- Lv3




#### External Framework Mappings

  - **[BPB]**: B-G-3


---

## Security Assessment

Security Assessment encourages practices that
help ensure that the project is well positioned
to identify and address security vulnerabilities
and threats in the software.




### OSPS-SA-01 - The [project documentation] MUST provide design documentation demonstrating all actions and actors within the system. 

Provide an overview of the project&#39;s design and architecture, illustrating
the interactions and components of the system to help contributors and
security reviewers understand the internal logic of the released software
assets.




#### OSPS-SA-01.01

**Requirement:** When the project has made a [release], the [project documentation] MUST include design documentation demonstrating all actions and actors within the system. 

**Recommendation:** Include designs in the project documentation that explains the actions
and actors. Actors include any subsystem or entity that can influence
another segment in the system.
Ensure this is updated for new features or breaking changes.


- Lv2
- Lv3




#### External Framework Mappings

  - **[BPB]**: B-B-1, B-S-7, B-S-8

  - **[CRA]**: 1.2a, 1.2b

  - **[SSDF]**: PO.1, PO.2, PO3.2

  - **[CSF]**: ID.AM-02

  - **[OCRE]**: 155-155, 326-704, 068-102, 036-275, 162-655


---

### OSPS-SA-02 - The [project documentation] MUST include descriptions of all external software interfaces of the [released software assets]. 

Provide users and developers with an understanding of how to interact with
the project&#39;s software and integrate it with other systems, enabling them
to use the software effectively.




#### OSPS-SA-02.01

**Requirement:** When the project has made a [release], the [project documentation] MUST include descriptions of all external software interfaces of the [released software assets]. 

**Recommendation:** Document all software interfaces (APIs) of the released software
assets, explaining how users can interact with the software and what
data is expected or produced.
Ensure this is updated for new features or breaking changes.


- Lv2
- Lv3




#### External Framework Mappings

  - **[BPB]**: B-B-10, B-S-7

  - **[CRA]**: 1.2a, 1.2b

  - **[SSDF]**: PW1.2

  - **[CSF]**: GV.OC-05, ID.AM-01

  - **[OC]**: 4.1.4

  - **[OCRE]**: 155-155, 068-102, 072-713, 820-878


---

### OSPS-SA-03 - The project MUST assess the security posture of all software assets. 

Provide project maintainers an understanding of how the software can be
misused or broken allows them to plan mitigations to close off the potential
of those threats from occurring.




#### OSPS-SA-03.01

**Requirement:** When the project has made a [release], the project MUST perform a security assessment to understand the most likely and impactful potential security problems that could occur within the software. 

**Recommendation:** Performing a security assessment informs both project members as well
as downstream consumers that the project understands what problems
could arise within the software. Understanding what threats could be
realized helps the project manage and address risk. This information
is useful to downstream consumers to demonstrate the security acumen
and practices of the project.
Ensure this is updated for new features or breaking changes.


- Lv2
- Lv3




#### OSPS-SA-03.02

**Requirement:** When the project has made a [release], the project MUST perform a threat modeling and [attack surface analysis] to understand and protect against attacks on critical code paths, functions, and interactions within the system. 

**Recommendation:** Threat modeling is an activity where the project looks at the 
codebase, associated processes and infrastructure, interfaces, key
components and &#34;thinks like a hacker&#34; and brainstorms how the system
be be broken or compromised. Each identified threat is listed out so
the project can then think about how to proactively avoid or close off
any gaps/vulnerabilities that could arise.
Ensure this is updated for new features or breaking changes.


- Lv3




#### External Framework Mappings

  - **[BPB]**: B-S-8, B-W-8, S-G-1

  - **[CRA]**: 1.1, 1.2j, 1.2k, 2.2

  - **[SSDF]**: PO5.1, PW1.1

  - **[CSF]**: ID.RA-01, ID.RA-04, ID.RA-05, DE.AE-07

  - **[OC]**: 4.1.5

  - **[OCRE]**: 068-102, 154-031, 888-770, 307-242, 660-867


---

## Vulnerability Management

Vulnerability Management focuses on the
processes and practices used to identify and
address security vulnerabilities in the project&#39;s
software dependencies. These controls help ensure
that the project is well positioned to respond to
security threats and vulnerabilities in the software.




### OSPS-VM-01 - The [project documentation] MUST include a policy for coordinated [vulnerability reporting], with a clear timeframe for response. 

Establish a process for reporting and addressing vulnerabilities in the
project, ensuring that security issues are handled promptly and 
transparently.




#### OSPS-VM-01.01

**Requirement:** While active, the [project documentation] MUST include a policy for coordinated [vulnerability reporting], with a clear timeframe for response. 

**Recommendation:** Create a SECURITY.md file at the root of the directory, outlining the
project&#39;s policy for coordinated vulnerability reporting. Include a
method for reporting vulnerabilities. Set expectations for the how the
project will respond and address reported issues.


- Lv2
- Lv3




#### External Framework Mappings

  - **[BPB]**: R-B-6, R-B-8, R-S-2, S-B-14, S-B-15

  - **[CRA]**: 2.1, 2.3, 2.6, 2.7, 2.8

  - **[SSDF]**: RV1.3

  - **[CSF]**: GV.PO-01, GV.PO-02, ID.RA-01, ID.RA-08

  - **[OC]**: 4.1.5, 4.2.1, 4.3.2

  - **[OCRE]**: 887-750


---

### OSPS-VM-02 - The project MUST publish contacts and process for reporting vulnerabilities. 

Reports from researchers and users are an important source for identifying
vulnerabilities in a project. People with vulnerabilities to report should
have a clear understanding of the process so that they can quickly submit
the report to the project.




#### OSPS-VM-02.01

**Requirement:** While active, the [project documentation] MUST contain security contacts. 

**Recommendation:** Create a security.md (or similarly-named) file that contains security
contacts for the project.


- Lv1




#### External Framework Mappings

  - **[BPB]**: B-S-8

  - **[CRA]**: 2.5

  - **[SSDF]**: RV1.3

  - **[CSF]**: GV.PO-01, GV.PO-02, ID.RA-01

  - **[OC]**: 4.1.1, 4.1.3, 4.1.5, 4.2.2

  - **[OCRE]**: 464-513


---

### OSPS-VM-03 - The project MUST provide a means for reporting security vulnerabilities privately to the security contacts within the project. 

Security vulnerabilities should not be shared with the public until such
time the project has been provided time to analyze and prepare 
remediations to protect users of the project.




#### OSPS-VM-03.01

**Requirement:** While active, the [project documentation] MUST provide a means for reporting security vulnerabilities privately to the security contacts within the project. 

**Recommendation:** Provide a means for security researchers to report vulnerabilities
privately to the project. This may be a dedicated email address, a
web form, VSC specialized tools, email addresses for security
contacts, or other methods.


- Lv2
- Lv3




#### External Framework Mappings

  - **[CRA]**: 1.2a, 1.2b, 2.1, 2.4, 2.6

  - **[OCRE]**: 308-514


---

### OSPS-VM-04 - The project MUST publicly publish data about discovered vulnerabilities. 

Consumers of the project must be informed about known vulnerabilities
found within the project.




#### OSPS-VM-04.01

**Requirement:** While active, the [project documentation] MUST publicly publish data about discovered vulnerabilities. 

**Recommendation:** Provide information about known vulnerabilities in a predictable
public channel, such as a CVE entry, blog post, or other medium.
To the degree possible, this information should include affected
version(s), how a consumer can determine if they are vulnerable, and
instructions for mitigation or remediation.


- Lv2
- Lv3




#### OSPS-VM-04.02

**Requirement:** While active, any vulnerabilities in the software components not affecting the project MUST be accounted for in a VEX document, augmenting the vulnerability report with non-exploitability details. 

**Recommendation:** Establish a VEX feed communicating the exploitability status of 
known vulnerabilities, including assessment details or any
mitigations in place preventing vulnerable code from being
executed.


- Lv3




#### External Framework Mappings

  - **[CRA]**: 1.2a, 1.2b, 2.1, 2.4, 2.6


---

### OSPS-VM-05 - The project MUST enforce a policy for addressing [SCA] findings. 

Ensure that the project clearly communicates the threshold for remediation
of SCA findings, including vulnerabilities and license issues in software
dependencies.
Ensure that violations of your SCA policy are addressed before software
is merged as well as before it releases, reducing the risk of compromised
delivery mechanisms or released software assets that are vulnerable or
malicious.




#### OSPS-VM-05.01

**Requirement:** While active, the [project documentation] MUST include a policy that defines a threshold for remediation of [SCA] findings related to vulnerabilities and [licenses]. 

**Recommendation:** Document a policy in the project that defines a threshold for
remediation of SCA findings related to vulnerabilities and licenses.
Include the process for identifying, prioritizing, and remediating
these findings.


- Lv3




#### OSPS-VM-05.02

**Requirement:** While active, the [project documentation] MUST include a policy to address [SCA] violations prior to any [release]. 

**Recommendation:** Document a policy in the project to address applicable Software
Composition Analysis results before any release, and add status checks
that verify compliance with that policy prior to release.


- Lv3




#### OSPS-VM-05.03

**Requirement:** While active, all [changes] to the project&#39;s [codebase] MUST be automatically evaluated against a documented policy for malicious dependencies and [known vulnerabilities] in dependencies, then blocked in the event of violations, except when declared and suppressed as non-exploitable. 

**Recommendation:** Create a status check in the project&#39;s version control system that
runs a Software Composition Analysis tool on all changes
to the codebase. Require that the status check passes before changes
can be merged.


- Lv3




#### External Framework Mappings

  - **[BPB]**: Q-B-12, Q-S-9, S-B-14, S-B-15, A-B-3, A-B-8

  - **[CRA]**: 1.2a, 1.2b, 1.2c, 2.1, 2.2, 2.3

  - **[SSDF]**: PO.4, PW1.2, PW8.1, RV2.1, RV 2.2

  - **[CSF]**: GV.RM-05, GV.RM-06, GV.PO-01, GV.PO-02, ID.RA-01, ID.RA-08, ID.IM-02

  - **[OC]**: 4.1.5, 4.2.1, 4.3.2

  - **[OCRE]**: 124-564, 832-555, 611-158, 207-435, 088-377


---

### OSPS-VM-06 - The [project documentation] MUST enforce a policy that defines a threshold for remediation of SAST findings. 

Identify and address defects and security weaknesses in the project&#39;s
codebase early in the development process, reducing the risk of shipping
insecure software.




#### OSPS-VM-06.01

**Requirement:** While active, the [project documentation] MUST include a policy that defines a threshold for remediation of SAST findings. 

**Recommendation:** Document a policy in the project that defines a threshold for
remediation of Static Application Security Testing (SAST) findings.
Include the process for identifying, prioritizing, and remediating
these findings.


- Lv3




#### OSPS-VM-06.02

**Requirement:** While active, all [changes] to the project&#39;s [codebase] MUST be automatically evaluated against a documented policy for security weaknesses and blocked in the event of violations except when declared and suppressed as non-exploitable. 

**Recommendation:** Create a status check in the project&#39;s version control system that
runs a Static Application Security Testing (SAST) tool on all changes
to the codebase. Require that the status check passes before changes
can be merged.


- Lv3




#### External Framework Mappings


---

## External Frameworks

Controls within this document may map to the following external frameworks:

- [OpenSSF Best Practices Badge (BPB): 2024](https://github.com/coreinfrastructure/best-practices-badge/blob/main/controls/controls.yml)
- [NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF): 2.0](https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/CSWP/NIST.CSWP.29.pdf)
- [Cyber Resilience Act (CRA): 20.11.2024](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/HTML/?uri=OJ:L_202402847#tit_1)
- [Software Security Development Framework (SSDF): 1.1](https://csrc.nist.gov/pubs/sp/800/218/final)
- [ISO/IEC 18974 (OC): 1.0 - 2023-12](https://openchainproject.org/security-assurance)
- [Open Cybersecurity Reference Architecture (OCRE): 2024](https://github.com/OWASP/OpenCRE)
- [Supply Chain Levels for Software Artifacts (SLSA): 1.0](https://github.com/slsa-framework/slsa)


---

## Lexicon


### Arbitrary Code

Code provided by an external source that is
executed by a system without validation or
restriction.




### Attack Surface Analysis

Attack Surface Analysis is about mapping out what parts of a system need to
be reviewed and tested for security vulnerabilities. The point of Attack
Surface Analysis is to understand the risk areas in an application, to make
developers and security specialists aware of what parts of the application
are open to attack, to find ways of minimizing this, and to notice when and
how the Attack Surface changes and what this means from a risk perspective.

See OWASP&#39;s Attack Surface Analysis Cheat Sheet for more information.



**References:**

  - https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Attack_Surface_Analysis_Cheat_Sheet.html


### Automated Test Suite

A collection of pre-written test cases that, when invoked,
execute the software to verify that actual results are expected results
without requiring manual intervention.
An automated test suite must return an overall &#34;pass&#34; or &#34;fail&#34; result,
and is often implemented using a test framework.
Common ways to invoke automated tests include `make check`, `make test`, `npm test`, and `cargo test` manually or as part of a Continuous Integration workflow.




### Best Practices Badge

The OpenSSF Best Practices Badge Identifies FLOSS best practices &amp; implements a badging system for those practices.



**References:**

  - https://www.bestpractices.dev/en


### Build and Release Pipeline

A series of automated processes that compile
and deploy software. Similar to the generic
term CI/CD Pipelines, but this term excludes
some pipelines, such as pre-merge status
checks.




### Change

Any alteration of the project&#39;s codebase,
CI/CD Pipelines, or documentation. This may
include addition, deletion, or modification
of content.




### CI/CD Pipeline

Automated pipelines for Continuous
Integration and Continuous Delivery.
Responsible for building, testing, and
delivering changes. These pipelines integrate
contributions frequently, enabling rapid and
reliable software delivery. CI focuses on
testing and building code, while CD delivers
software to location such as a package
registry.

In the context of the Open Source Project
Security Baseline, CD refers only to
continuous delivery, not to continuous
deployment, as sometimes used elsewhere.




### Contributor

Entities who commit code or documentation to
the project. Code contributors include
collaborators or external participants who
submit changes.

In the context of the Open Source Project
Security Baseline, code contributors does not
address non-code contributions such as
designing, triaging, reviewing, or testing.




### Codebase

The collection of source code and related
assets that make up the project. The codebase
includes all files necessary to build and
test the software. Lives in the repository,
sometimes alongside documentation and CI/CD
pipelines. The contents of the codebase are
the primary deliverable in a release.




### Collaborator

A user with a role on the project&#39;s version
control system who can approve changes or
manage the repository settings. Collaborators
may have varying permission levels based on
their role in the project. This does not
include contributors whose changes only
originate through a request from a repository
fork.




### Commit

A record of a single change submitted to the
version control system. Each commit includes
details such as the modifications made, the
contributor who made them, and the timestamp
of the change.




### Cyber Resilience Act

Regulation (EU) 2024/2847 (Cyber Resilience Act, CRA).
2024 European cybersecurity law that goes into full effect
December 2027.  Focuses on products sold within the European
Union and the cybersecurity and vulnerability management
practices used to create and support the product.



**References:**

  - https://eur-lex.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/2847/oj


### Cybersecurity Framework

The NIST Cyber Security Framework (CSF) helps organizations understand and improve their management of cybersecurity risk.



**References:**

  - https://www.nist.gov/cyberframework

  - https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.CSWP.29


### Defect

Errors or flaws in the software that cause it
to produce incorrect or unintended results, 
or to behave in an unintended way. Defects
can include bugs, vulnerabilities, or other
issues that impact the software&#39;s
functionality or security. Defects may have
originally been intentional, but a change in
environment or understanding has made them
undesirable.




### OpenEoX

An initiative aimed at standardizing the way
End-of-Life and End-of-Support information is 
exchanged within the software and hardware industries.
Covering both vendors and open-source maintainers,
OpenEoX strives to provide a transparent, efficient, 
and unified approach to managing product lifecycles.



**References:**

  - https://openeox.org/


### Exploitable Vulnerabilities

Defects in the software that can be leveraged
by attackers to gain unauthorized access,
execute arbitrary code, or cause other
undesired outcomes.




### License

A legal document that defines the terms under
which the software can be used, modified, and
distributed. May be stored at the top level
of the repository in a file named `LICENSE`
or within files in a directory named
`LICENSE/`. The license applies to repository
contents and any released software assets,
unless otherwise stated.




### Known Vulnerabilities

Publicly acknowledged exploitable
vulnerabilities that have been identified
within the software. These vulnerabilities
often have associated advisories, patches, or
recommended mitigations.

All proposed changes to the project&#39;s
codebase must be automatically evaluated 
against a documented policy for known
vulnerabilities and blocked in the
event of violations.




### Multi-factor Authentication

An authentication method that requires two or
more verification factors (e.g., a password
and a token) to gain access to a resource.
This method strengthens security by requiring
multiple forms of identification.




### OpenChain

A Linux Foundation project that oversee two ISO/IEC standards to better understand and manage software supply chains. 



**References:**

  - https://openchainproject.org/

  - https://openchainproject.org/license-compliance


### OpenCRE

An OWASP project that converts cybersecurity requirements into a hierchical, machine-readable format.



**References:**

  - https://www.opencre.org/

  - https://zeljkoobrenovic.github.io/opencre-explorer/


### Primary Branch

The main development branch in the version
control system, representing the latest
stable codebase. Releases are typically made
from this branch. Commonly named `main` or
`master`. In some situations where branches
are not featured, a repository with forked
repositories will have the original repo
acting as an equivalent to the primary
branch.




### Project Documentation

Written materials related to the project,
such as user guides, developer guides, and
contribution guidelines. These documents help
users and developers understand, contribute
to, and interact with the software. At
release time, this may include provenance
information, licensing details, and other
metadata.




### Software Provenance

Information about the origin and history of
the released software assets. This may
include details about its development,
dependencies, vulnerabilities, contributors,
and licensing.




### Release

- _(verb)_ The process of making a version
controlled bundle of assets available to
users, such as through a package registry.
- _(noun)_ A version-controlled bundle of
code, documentation, and other assets made
available to users. A release often includes
release notes that describe the changes.




### Released Software Asset

Deliverables provided to users as part of a
release. These assets can include binaries,
libraries, or containers.




### Repository

A storage location managed by a version
control system where the project&#39;s code,
documentation, and other resources are
stored. It tracks changes, manages
collaborator permissions, and includes
configuration options such as branch
protection and access controls.




### Secure Software Development Framework

The NIST Secure Software Development Framework (SP 800-218) is a broadly reviewed and collaborative set of fundamental secure software development practices.



**References:**

  - https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/ssdf

  - https://csrc.nist.gov/pubs/sp/800/218/final


### Software Bill of Materials

A list of all components that make up a given piece of software
or hardware, formatted as CycloneDX or SPDX. This list must include
the following data elements for the components included in the released
software asset: license, supplier name, filename of the component,
component name, component version, software identifiers, relationship
between the components, author of the SBOM data and timestamp. Additionally,
for deployable and executable components, the SBOM should record their
cryptographic hashes.



**References:**

  - https://www.ntia.gov/sites/default/files/publications/sbom_minimum_elements_report_0.pdf

  - https://www.cisa.gov/sites/default/files/2023-04/sbom-types-document-508c.pdf

  - https://spdx.dev

  - https://cyclonedx.org


### Software Composition Analysis

The process of identifying and cataloging all
components and dependencies in a software
codebase. SCA is essential for managing
security vulnerabilities and ensuring
compliance with organizational policies.




### Status Check

Automated tests or validations that run on
commits before they are merged. Status checks
ensure that any changes meet the project&#39;s
quality and security standards.




### Subproject

A codebase that is part of the project but
maintained in a separate repository.
Subprojects may be compiled into the primary
project or used as standalone components.




### Supply-chain Levels for Software Artifacts

An OpenSSF project that sets guidelines for securing software supply chain infrastrucutre and artifact integrity. 



**References:**

  - https://openssf.org/projects/slsa/

  - https://slsa.dev/


### Threat Modeling

Threat modeling is an activity where the project
looks at the codebase, associated processes and 
infrastructure, interfaces, key components and 
&#34;thinks like a hacker&#34; to brainstorm how the 
system be be broken or compromised.

Each identified threat is listed out so the project
can then think about how to proactively avoid or 
close off any gaps/vulnerabilities that could arise.

Examples of threat modeling methodologies include
the Shostack &#34;4 Questions&#34; model, STRIDE, and
tools such as the Elevation of Privilege Threat
Modeling Card Game or Threat Dragon.



**References:**

  - https://github.com/adamshostack/4QuestionFrame

  - https://owasp.org/www-community/Threat_Modeling_Process

  - https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=20303

  - https://owasp.org/www-project-threat-dragon


### Version Identifier

A label assigned to a specific release of the
software, such as `v1.2.3`. Commonly
recommended formats are Semantic Versioning
or Calendar Versioning.




### Version Control System

A tool that tracks changes to files over time
and facilitates collaboration among
contributors. Examples of version control
systems include Git, Subversion, and
Mercurial.




### Vulnerability Reporting

The act of identifying and documenting
exploitable vulnerabilities in released
software assets. This may include privately
or openly reporting vulnerabilities to
maintainers, security teams, or the public,
as well as tracking the resolution of these
vulnerabilities.


---

## Acknowledgments

This baseline was created by community leaders from across the Linux Foundation, including:

- OpenJS Foundation (OpenJS)
- Open Source Security Foundation (OpenSSF)
- Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF)
- Fintech Open Source Foundation (FINOS)
- [OSPS Baseline contributors](https://github.com/ossf/security-baseline/graphs/contributors)

[Arbitrary Code]: #arbitrary-code
[Attack Surface Analysis]: #attack-surface-analysis
[Automated Test Suite]: #automated-test-suite
[Best Practices Badge]: #best-practices-badge
[BPB]: #best-practices-badge
[OpenSSF Best Practices Badge]: #best-practices-badge
[Build and Release Pipeline]: #build-and-release-pipeline
[Build and Release Pipelines]: #build-and-release-pipeline
[Change]: #change
[changes]: #change
[CI/CD Pipeline]: #ci/cd-pipeline
[CI/CD pipelines]: #ci/cd-pipeline
[Contributor]: #contributor
[contributors]: #contributor
[Codebase]: #codebase
[codebases]: #codebase
[Collaborator]: #collaborator
[collaborators]: #collaborator
[Commit]: #commit
[commits]: #commit
[Cyber Resilience Act]: #cyber-resilience-act
[CRA]: #cyber-resilience-act
[Cybersecurity Framework]: #cybersecurity-framework
[CSF]: #cybersecurity-framework
[NIST Cybersecurity Framework]: #cybersecurity-framework
[Defect]: #defect
[defects]: #defect
[OpenEoX]: #openeox
[Exploitable Vulnerabilities]: #exploitable-vulnerabilities
[Exploitable Vulnerability]: #exploitable-vulnerabilities
[License]: #license
[licenses]: #license
[Known Vulnerabilities]: #known-vulnerabilities
[Known Vulnerability]: #known-vulnerabilities
[Multi-factor Authentication]: #multi-factor-authentication
[MFA]: #multi-factor-authentication
[OpenChain]: #openchain
[OC]: #openchain
[ISO/IEC 5230]: #openchain
[ISO/IEC 18974]: #openchain
[OpenCRE]: #opencre
[OCRE]: #opencre
[Primary Branch]: #primary-branch
[Project Documentation]: #project-documentation
[Software Provenance]: #software-provenance
[Provenance]: #software-provenance
[Release]: #release
[releases]: #release
[Released Software Asset]: #released-software-asset
[released software assets]: #released-software-asset
[Repository]: #repository
[Repo]: #repository
[Repositories]: #repository
[Secure Software Development Framework]: #secure-software-development-framework
[SSDF]: #secure-software-development-framework
[NIST Secure Software Development Framework]: #secure-software-development-framework
[NIST SP 800-218]: #secure-software-development-framework
[Software Bill of Materials]: #software-bill-of-materials
[SBOM]: #software-bill-of-materials
[SBOMs]: #software-bill-of-materials
[Software Composition Analysis]: #software-composition-analysis
[SCA]: #software-composition-analysis
[Status Check]: #status-check
[status checks]: #status-check
[Subproject]: #subproject
[subprojects]: #subproject
[Supply-chain Levels for Software Artifacts]: #supply-chain-levels-for-software-artifacts
[SLSA]: #supply-chain-levels-for-software-artifacts
[Supply-chain Levels for Software Artifacts]: #supply-chain-levels-for-software-artifacts
[Threat Modeling]: #threat-modeling
[Version Identifier]: #version-identifier
[Version Control System]: #version-control-system
[VCS]: #version-control-system
[Vulnerability Reporting]: #vulnerability-reporting
[Coordinated Vulnerability Reporting]: #vulnerability-reporting
