---
nav-title: Current Version
---

# Open Source Project Security Baseline

Version: 2025-10-10


<button onclick="toTop()" id="topButton" title="Go to top"
style="display: none; position: fixed; bottom: 20px; right: 30px; border: none; background-color: CornflowerBlue; color: white; cursor: pointer; padding: 10px; border-radius: 10px; font-size: 18px;">to top</button>

<script>
let topButton = document.getElementById("topButton");
window.onscroll = function() {scrollFunction()};

function scrollFunction() {
  if (document.documentElement.scrollTop > 50 ) {
    topButton.style.display = "block";
  } else {
    topButton.style.display = "none";
  }
}

function toTop() {
  document.documentElement.scrollTop = 0;
}
</script>


* Contents
{:toc}

## Overview

The Open Source Project Security (OSPS) Baseline is a set of security criteria that projects should meet to demonstrate a strong security posture.
The controls are organized by maturity level and category.
In the detailed subsections you will find the control, rationale, and details notes.

Where possible, we have added control mappings to external frameworks.
These are not guaranteed to be 100% matches, but instead serve as references
when working to meet the corresponding controls.

For more information on the project and to make contributions, visit the [GitHub repo](https://github.com/ossf/security-baseline).

---

## Controls Overview

* [Level 1](#level-1): for any code or non-code project with any number of maintainers or users
* [Level 2](#level-2): for any code project that has at least 2 maintainers and a small number of consistent users
* [Level 3](#level-3): for any code project that has a large number of consistent users

### Level 1

**[OSPS-AC-01.01](#osps-ac-0101)**: 
When a [user][User] attempts to read or modify a [sensitive resource][Sensitive Resource] in the [project][Project]&#39;s
authoritative [repository][Repository], the system MUST require the [user][User] to complete
a [multi-factor authentication][Multi-factor Authentication] process.

**[OSPS-AC-02.01](#osps-ac-0201)**: 
When a new [collaborator][Collaborator] is added, the [version control system][Version Control System] MUST
require manual permission assignment, or restrict the [collaborator][Collaborator]
permissions to the lowest available privileges by default.

**[OSPS-AC-03.01](#osps-ac-0301)**: 
When a direct [commit][Commit] is attempted on the [project][Project]&#39;s [primary branch][Primary Branch],
an enforcement mechanism MUST prevent the [change][Change] from being applied.

**[OSPS-AC-03.02](#osps-ac-0302)**: 
When an attempt is made to delete the [project][Project]&#39;s [primary branch][Primary Branch],
the [version control system][Version Control System] MUST treat this as a sensitive activity
and require explicit confirmation of intent.

**[OSPS-BR-01.01](#osps-br-0101)**: 
When a [CI/CD pipeline][CI/CD Pipeline] accepts an input parameter, that parameter MUST
be sanitized and validated prior to use in the pipeline.

**[OSPS-BR-01.02](#osps-br-0102)**: 
When a [CI/CD pipeline][CI/CD Pipeline] uses a branch name in its functionality, that
name value MUST be sanitized and validated prior to use in the
pipeline.

**[OSPS-BR-03.01](#osps-br-0301)**: 
When the [project][Project] lists a URI as an official [project][Project] channel, that URI
MUST be exclusively delivered using encrypted channels.

**[OSPS-BR-03.02](#osps-br-0302)**: 
When the [project][Project] lists a URI as an official distribution channel,
that URI MUST be exclusively delivered using encrypted channels.

**[OSPS-BR-07.01](#osps-br-0701)**: 
The [project][Project] MUST prevent the unintentional storage of unencrypted [sensitive data][Sensitive Data], such as secrets and credentials, in the [version control system][Version Control System].

**[OSPS-DO-01.01](#osps-do-0101)**: 
When the [project][Project] has made a [release][Release], the [project][Project] documentation MUST
include [user][User] guides for all basic functionality.

**[OSPS-DO-02.01](#osps-do-0201)**: 
When the [project][Project] has made a [release][Release], the [project][Project] documentation MUST
include a guide for reporting [defects][Defect].

**[OSPS-GV-02.01](#osps-gv-0201)**: 
While active, the [project][Project] MUST have one or more mechanisms for public
discussions about proposed [changes][Change] and usage obstacles.

**[OSPS-GV-03.01](#osps-gv-0301)**: 
While active, the [project][Project] documentation MUST include an explanation
of the contribution process.

**[OSPS-LE-02.01](#osps-le-0201)**: 
While active, the [license][License] for the source [code][Code] MUST meet the OSI Open
Source Definition or the FSF Free Software Definition.

**[OSPS-LE-02.02](#osps-le-0202)**: 
While active, the [license][License] for the [released software assets][Released Software Asset] MUST meet
the OSI Open Source Definition or the FSF Free Software Definition.

**[OSPS-LE-03.01](#osps-le-0301)**: 
While active, the [license][License] for the source [code][Code] MUST be maintained in
the corresponding [repository][Repository]&#39;s [LICENSE][License] file, COPYING file, or
[LICENSE][License]/ directory.

**[OSPS-LE-03.02](#osps-le-0302)**: 
While active, the [license][License] for the [released software assets][Released Software Asset] MUST be
included in the released source [code][Code], or in a [LICENSE][License] file, COPYING
file, or [LICENSE][License]/ directory alongside the corresponding [release][Release]
assets.

**[OSPS-QA-01.01](#osps-qa-0101)**: 
While active, the [project][Project]&#39;s source [code][Code] [repository][Repository] MUST be publicly
readable at a static URL.

**[OSPS-QA-01.02](#osps-qa-0102)**: 
The [version control system][Version Control System] MUST contain a publicly readable record of
all [changes][Change] made, who made the [changes][Change], and when the [changes][Change] were
made.

**[OSPS-QA-02.01](#osps-qa-0201)**: 
When the package management system supports it, the source [code][Code]
[repository][Repository] MUST contain a dependency list that accounts for the direct
language dependencies.

**[OSPS-QA-04.01](#osps-qa-0401)**: 
While active, the [project][Project] documentation MUST contain a list of any
codebases that are considered [subprojects][Subproject].

**[OSPS-QA-05.01](#osps-qa-0501)**: 
While active, the [version control system][Version Control System] MUST NOT contain generated
executable artifacts.

**[OSPS-QA-05.02](#osps-qa-0502)**: 
While active, the [version control system][Version Control System] MUST NOT contain unreviewable
binary artifacts.

**[OSPS-VM-02.01](#osps-vm-0201)**: 
While active, the [project][Project] documentation MUST contain
security contacts.


### Level 2

**[OSPS-AC-04.01](#osps-ac-0401)**: 
When a CI/CD task is executed with no permissions specified, the
CI/CD system MUST default the task&#39;s permissions to the lowest
permissions granted in the pipeline.

**[OSPS-BR-02.01](#osps-br-0201)**: 
When an official [release][Release] is created, that [release][Release] MUST be assigned a
unique [version identifier][Version Identifier].

**[OSPS-BR-04.01](#osps-br-0401)**: 
When an official [release][Release] is created, that [release][Release] MUST contain
a descriptive log of functional and security
modifications.

**[OSPS-BR-05.01](#osps-br-0501)**: 
When a [build and release pipeline][Build and Release Pipeline] ingests dependencies, it MUST
use standardized tooling where available.

**[OSPS-BR-06.01](#osps-br-0601)**: 
When an official [release][Release] is created, that [release][Release] MUST be signed or
accounted for in a signed manifest including each asset&#39;s
cryptographic hashes.

**[OSPS-DO-06.01](#osps-do-0601)**: 
When the [project][Project] has made a [release][Release], the [project][Project] documentation MUST
include a description of how the [project][Project] selects, obtains, and tracks
its dependencies.

**[OSPS-GV-01.01](#osps-gv-0101)**: 
While active, the [project][Project] documentation MUST include a list of
[project][Project] members with access to [sensitive resources][Sensitive Resource].

**[OSPS-GV-01.02](#osps-gv-0102)**: 
While active, the [project][Project] documentation MUST include descriptions of
the roles and responsibilities for members of the [project][Project].

**[OSPS-GV-03.02](#osps-gv-0302)**: 
While active, the [project][Project] documentation MUST include a guide for [code][Code]
[contributors][Contributor] that includes requirements for acceptable contributions.

**[OSPS-LE-01.01](#osps-le-0101)**: 
While active, the [version control system][Version Control System] MUST require all [code][Code]
[contributors][Contributor] to assert that they are legally authorized to make the
associated contributions on every [commit][Commit].

**[OSPS-QA-03.01](#osps-qa-0301)**: 
When a [commit][Commit] is made to the [primary branch][Primary Branch], any automated status
checks for [commits][Commit] MUST pass or be manually bypassed.

**[OSPS-QA-06.01](#osps-qa-0601)**: 
Prior to a [commit][Commit] being accepted, the [project][Project]&#39;s [CI/CD pipelines][CI/CD Pipeline] MUST
run at least one [automated test suite][Automated Test Suite] to ensure the [changes][Change] meet
expectations.

**[OSPS-SA-01.01](#osps-sa-0101)**: 
When the [project][Project] has made a [release][Release], the [project][Project] documentation MUST
include design documentation demonstrating all actions and actors
within the system.

**[OSPS-SA-02.01](#osps-sa-0201)**: 
When the [project][Project] has made a [release][Release], the [project][Project] documentation MUST
include descriptions of all external software interfaces of the
[released software assets][Released Software Asset].

**[OSPS-SA-03.01](#osps-sa-0301)**: 
When the [project][Project] has made a [release][Release], the [project][Project] MUST perform a
security assessment to understand the most likely and impactful
potential security problems that could occur within the software.

**[OSPS-VM-01.01](#osps-vm-0101)**: 
While active, the [project][Project] documentation MUST
include a policy for [coordinated vulnerability disclosure][Coordinated Vulnerability Disclosure] ([CVD][Coordinated Vulnerability Disclosure]), with a clear
timeframe for response.

**[OSPS-VM-03.01](#osps-vm-0301)**: 
While active, the [project][Project] documentation MUST
provide a means for [private vulnerability reporting][Private Vulnerability Reporting] directly to
the security contacts within the [project][Project].

**[OSPS-VM-04.01](#osps-vm-0401)**: 
While active, the [project][Project] documentation MUST
publicly publish data about discovered vulnerabilities.


### Level 3

**[OSPS-AC-04.02](#osps-ac-0402)**: 
When a job is assigned permissions in a [CI/CD pipeline][CI/CD Pipeline], the source
[code][Code] or configuration MUST only assign the minimum privileges
necessary for the corresponding activity.

**[OSPS-BR-02.02](#osps-br-0202)**: 
When an official [release][Release] is created, all assets within that [release][Release]
MUST be clearly associated with the [release][Release] identifier or another
unique identifier for the asset.

**[OSPS-BR-07.02](#osps-br-0702)**: 
The [project][Project] MUST define a policy for managing secrets and credentials used by the [project][Project]. The policy should include guidelines for storing, accessing, and rotating secrets and credentials.

**[OSPS-DO-03.01](#osps-do-0301)**: 
When the [project][Project] has made a [release][Release], the [project][Project] documentation MUST
contain instructions to verify the integrity and authenticity of the
[release][Release] assets.

**[OSPS-DO-03.02](#osps-do-0302)**: 
When the [project][Project] has made a [release][Release], the [project][Project] documentation MUST
contain instructions to verify the expected identity of the [person][User] or
process authoring the software [release][Release].

**[OSPS-DO-04.01](#osps-do-0401)**: 
When the [project][Project] has made a [release][Release], the [project][Project] documentation MUST
include a descriptive statement about the scope and duration of
support for each [release][Release].

**[OSPS-DO-05.01](#osps-do-0501)**: 
When the [project][Project] has made a [release][Release], the [project][Project] documentation MUST
provide a descriptive statement when [releases][Release] or versions will no
longer receive security updates.

**[OSPS-GV-04.01](#osps-gv-0401)**: 
While active, the [project][Project] documentation MUST have a policy that [code][Code]
[collaborators][Collaborator] are reviewed prior to granting escalated permissions to
[sensitive resources][Sensitive Resource].

**[OSPS-QA-02.02](#osps-qa-0202)**: 
When the [project][Project] has made a [release][Release], all compiled released software
assets MUST be delivered with a [software bill of materials][Software Bill of Materials].

**[OSPS-QA-04.02](#osps-qa-0402)**: 
When the [project][Project] has made a [release][Release] comprising multiple source [code][Code]
[repositories][Repository], all [subprojects][Subproject] MUST enforce security requirements that
are as strict or stricter than the primary codebase.

**[OSPS-QA-06.02](#osps-qa-0602)**: 
While active, [project][Project]&#39;s documentation MUST clearly document when and
how tests are run.

**[OSPS-QA-06.03](#osps-qa-0603)**: 
While active, the [project][Project]&#39;s documentation MUST include a policy that
all major [changes][Change] to the software produced by the [project][Project] should add
or update tests of the functionality in an [automated test suite][Automated Test Suite].

**[OSPS-QA-07.01](#osps-qa-0701)**: 
When a [commit][Commit] is made to the [primary branch][Primary Branch], the [project][Project]&#39;s version
control system MUST require at least one non-author human approval of the
[changes][Change] before merging.

**[OSPS-SA-03.02](#osps-sa-0302)**: 
When the [project][Project] has made a [release][Release], the [project][Project] MUST perform a threat
modeling and [attack surface analysis][Attack Surface Analysis] to understand and protect against
attacks on critical [code][Code] paths, functions, and interactions within the
system.

**[OSPS-VM-04.02](#osps-vm-0402)**: 
While active, any vulnerabilities in the
software components not affecting the [project][Project] MUST be accounted for
in a VEX document, augmenting the vulnerability report with
non-exploitability details.

**[OSPS-VM-05.01](#osps-vm-0501)**: 
While active, the [project][Project] documentation MUST include a policy that
defines a threshold for remediation of [SCA][Software Composition Analysis] findings related to
vulnerabilities and [licenses][License].

**[OSPS-VM-05.02](#osps-vm-0502)**: 
While active, the [project][Project] documentation MUST include a policy to
address [SCA][Software Composition Analysis] violations prior to any [release][Release].

**[OSPS-VM-05.03](#osps-vm-0503)**: 
While active, all [changes][Change] to the [project][Project]&#39;s codebase MUST be
automatically evaluated against a documented policy for malicious
dependencies and [known vulnerabilities][Known Vulnerabilities] in dependencies, then blocked
in the event of violations, except when declared and suppressed as
non-exploitable.

**[OSPS-VM-06.01](#osps-vm-0601)**: 
While active, the [project][Project] documentation MUST include a policy that
defines a threshold for remediation of SAST findings.

**[OSPS-VM-06.02](#osps-vm-0602)**: 
While active, all [changes][Change] to the [project][Project]&#39;s codebase MUST be
automatically evaluated against a documented policy for security
weaknesses and blocked in the event of violations except when declared
and suppressed as non-exploitable.




## Access Control


Access Control focuses on the mechanisms and
policies that control access to the project&#39;s version
control system and CI/CD pipelines. These controls help
ensure that only authorized users can access sensitive
data, modify repository settings, or execute build and
release processes.




### OSPS-AC-01 - The [project][Project]&#39;s [version control system][Version Control System] MUST require multi-factor authentication for [users][User] modifying the [project][Project] [repository][Repository] settings or accessing [sensitive data][Sensitive Data].


Reduce the risk of account compromise or insider threats by requiring
multi-factor authentication for collaborators modifying the project
repository settings or accessing sensitive data.




#### OSPS-AC-01.01

**Requirement:** When a [user][User] attempts to read or modify a [sensitive resource][Sensitive Resource] in the [project][Project]&#39;s authoritative [repository][Repository], the system MUST require the [user][User] to complete a [multi-factor authentication][Multi-factor Authentication] process.

**Recommendation:** 
Enforce multi-factor authentication for the project&#39;s version
control system, requiring collaborators to provide a second form of
authentication when accessing sensitive data or modifying repository
settings. Passkeys are acceptable for this control.



**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 1
- Maturity Level 2
- Maturity Level 3




#### External Framework Mappings

  
  - **[BPB][Best Practices Badge]**: {CC-G-1 0 }
  - **[CRA][Cyber Resilience Act]**: {1.2d 0 }, {1.2e 0 }, {1.2f 0 }
  - **[SSDF][Secure Software Development Framework]**: {PO.3.2 0 }, {PS.1 0 }, {PS.2 0 }
  - **[CSF][Cybersecurity Framework]**: {PR.A-02 0 }, {PR.A-05 0 }
  - **[OpenCRE][OpenCRE]**: {486-813 0 }, {124-564 0 }, {347-352 0 }, {333-858 0 }, {152-725 0 }, {201-246 0 }
  - **PSSCRM**: {G2.6 0 }, {P3.3 0 }, {E1.2 0 }, {E1.3 0 }, {E1.4 0 }, {E3.1 0 }
  - **[SAMM][Proactive Software Supply Chain Risk Management Framework]**: {Operations -Environment Management -Configuration Hardening Lvl1 0 }
  - **[PCIDSS][Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard]**: {2.2.1 0 }, {8.2.1 0 }, {8.3.1 0 }
  - **UKSSCOP**: {2.1 0 }
  - **[800-161][NIST Special Publication 800-161 - Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management Practices for Systems and Organizations]**: {AC-4(21) 0 }, {AC-17 0 }, {CM-5 0 }, {CM-6 0 }, {IA-2 0 }, {IA-5 0 }, {1.2e 0 }, {1.2f 0 }


---

### OSPS-AC-02 - The [project][Project]&#39;s [version control system][Version Control System] MUST restrict [collaborator][Collaborator] permissions to the lowest available privileges by default.


Reduce the risk of unauthorized access to the project&#39;s repository by
limiting the permissions granted to new collaborators.




#### OSPS-AC-02.01

**Requirement:** When a new [collaborator][Collaborator] is added, the [version control system][Version Control System] MUST require manual permission assignment, or restrict the [collaborator][Collaborator] permissions to the lowest available privileges by default.

**Recommendation:** 
Most public version control systems are configured in this manner.
Ensure the project&#39;s version control system always assigns the lowest
available permissions to collaborators by default when added, granting
additional permissions only when necessary.



**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 1
- Maturity Level 2
- Maturity Level 3




#### External Framework Mappings

  
  - **[CRA][Cyber Resilience Act]**: {1.2f 0 }
  - **[SSDF][Secure Software Development Framework]**: {PO.2 0 }, {PO.3.2 0 }, {PS.1 0 }, {PS.2 0 }
  - **[CSF][Cybersecurity Framework]**: {PR.AA-02 0 }, {PR.AA-05 0 }
  - **[OpenCRE][OpenCRE]**: {486-813 0 }, {124-564 0 }, {802-056 0 }, {368-633 0 }, {152-725 0 }
  - **PSSCRM**: {P2.3 0 }, {E1.2 0 }, {E3.3 0 }
  - **[PCIDSS][Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard]**: {2.2.1 0 }
  - **UKSSCOP**: {2.1 0 }
  - **[800-161][NIST Special Publication 800-161 - Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management Practices for Systems and Organizations]**: {AC-2 0 }, {AC-3 0 }, {AC-4(21) 0 }, {AC-5 0 }, {AC-6 0 }, {CM-5 0 }, {CM-7 0 }


---

### OSPS-AC-03 - The [project][Project]&#39;s [version control system][Version Control System] MUST prevent unintentional modification of the [primary branch][Primary Branch].


Reduce the risk of accidental changes or deletion of the primary branch
of the project&#39;s repository by preventing unintentional modification.




#### OSPS-AC-03.01

**Requirement:** When a direct [commit][Commit] is attempted on the [project][Project]&#39;s [primary branch][Primary Branch], an enforcement mechanism MUST prevent the [change][Change] from being applied.

**Recommendation:** 
If the VCS is centralized, set branch protection on the primary branch
in the project&#39;s VCS. Alternatively, use a decentralized approach,
like the Linux kernel&#39;s, where changes are first proposed in another
repository, and merging changes into the primary repository requires a
specific separate act.


**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 1
- Maturity Level 2
- Maturity Level 3




#### OSPS-AC-03.02

**Requirement:** When an attempt is made to delete the [project][Project]&#39;s [primary branch][Primary Branch], the [version control system][Version Control System] MUST treat this as a sensitive activity and require explicit confirmation of intent.

**Recommendation:** 
Set branch protection on the primary branch in the project&#39;s version
control system to prevent deletion.



**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 1
- Maturity Level 2
- Maturity Level 3




#### External Framework Mappings

  
  - **[CRA][Cyber Resilience Act]**: {1.2f 0 }
  - **[SSDF][Secure Software Development Framework]**: {PO.3.2 0 }, {PS.1 0 }, {PS.2 0 }
  - **[CSF][Cybersecurity Framework]**: {PR.A-02 0 }, {PR.A-05 0 }
  - **[OpenCRE][OpenCRE]**: {486-813 0 }, {124-564 0 }, {152-725 0 }
  - **Scorecard**: {Branch-Protection 0 }
  - **PSSCRM**: {P3.2 0 }, {P3.5 0 }, {E1.5 0 }, {E3.1 0 }
  - **[PCIDSS][Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard]**: {2.2.1 0 }
  - **UKSSCOP**: {2.1 0 }, {2.2 0 }
  - **[800-161][NIST Special Publication 800-161 - Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management Practices for Systems and Organizations]**: {AC-3 0 }, {AC-5 0 }, {CM-3 0 }, {CM-3(2) 0 }, {CM-5 0 }


---

### OSPS-AC-04 - The [project][Project]&#39;s permissions in [CI/CD pipelines][CI/CD Pipeline] MUST follow the principle of least privilege.


Reduce the risk of unauthorized access to the project&#39;s build and release
processes by limiting the permissions granted to steps within the CI/CD
pipelines.




#### OSPS-AC-04.01

**Requirement:** When a CI/CD task is executed with no permissions specified, the CI/CD system MUST default the task&#39;s permissions to the lowest permissions granted in the pipeline.

**Recommendation:** 
Configure the project&#39;s settings to assign the lowest available
permissions to new pipelines by default, granting additional
permissions only when necessary for specific tasks.


**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 2
- Maturity Level 3




#### OSPS-AC-04.02

**Requirement:** When a job is assigned permissions in a [CI/CD pipeline][CI/CD Pipeline], the source [code][Code] or configuration MUST only assign the minimum privileges necessary for the corresponding activity.

**Recommendation:** 
Configure the project&#39;s CI/CD pipelines to assign the lowest available
permissions to users and services by default, elevating permissions
only when necessary for specific tasks. In some version control
systems, this may be possible at the organizational or repository
level. If not, set permissions at the top level of the pipeline.


**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 3




#### External Framework Mappings

  
  - **[CRA][Cyber Resilience Act]**: {1.2d 0 }, {1.2e 0 }, {1.2f 0 }
  - **[SSDF][Secure Software Development Framework]**: {PO.2 0 }, {PO.3.2 0 }, {PS.1 0 }, {PS.2 0 }
  - **[CSF][Cybersecurity Framework]**: {PR.AA-02 0 }, {PR.AA-05 0 }
  - **[OpenCRE][OpenCRE]**: {486-813 0 }, {124-564 0 }, {347-507 0 }, {263-284 0 }, {123-124 0 }
  - **[SLSA][Supply-chain Levels for Software Artifacts]**: {Producer - Choose an appropriate build platform 0 }, {Build platform - Isolation strength - Isolated 0 }
  - **PSSCRM**: {P3.2 0 }
  - **[SAMM][Proactive Software Supply Chain Risk Management Framework]**: {Operations -Environment Management -Configuration Hardening Lvl1 0 }
  - **[PCIDSS][Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard]**: {2.2.1 0 }, {8.2.1 0 }
  - **UKSSCOP**: {2.1 0 }, {2.2 0 }
  - **[800-161][NIST Special Publication 800-161 - Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management Practices for Systems and Organizations]**: {AC-3(8) 0 }, {AC-4 0 }, {AC-4(6) 0 }, {AC-6 0 }, {AC-20 0 }, {AC-20(1) 0 }, {CM-5 0 }, {CM-7 0 }


---

## Build and Release


Build and Release focuses on the processes and
tools used to compile, package, and distribute the
project&#39;s software. These controls help ensure that the
project&#39;s build and release pipelines are secure,
consistent, and reliable, reducing the risk of
vulnerabilities or errors in the software distribution
process.




### OSPS-BR-01 - The [project][Project]&#39;s [build and release pipelines][Build and Release Pipeline] MUST NOT permit untrusted input that allows access to privileged resources.


Reduce the risk of code injection or other security vulnerabilities in the
project&#39;s build and release pipelines by preventing untrusted input from
accessing privileged resources.




#### OSPS-BR-01.01

**Requirement:** When a [CI/CD pipeline][CI/CD Pipeline] accepts an input parameter, that parameter MUST be sanitized and validated prior to use in the pipeline.

**Recommendation:** 

**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 1
- Maturity Level 2
- Maturity Level 3




#### OSPS-BR-01.02

**Requirement:** When a [CI/CD pipeline][CI/CD Pipeline] uses a branch name in its functionality, that name value MUST be sanitized and validated prior to use in the pipeline.

**Recommendation:** 

**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 1
- Maturity Level 2
- Maturity Level 3




#### External Framework Mappings

  
  - **[CRA][Cyber Resilience Act]**: {1.2f 0 }
  - **[SSDF][Secure Software Development Framework]**: {PO.3.2 0 }, {PO.5.2 0 }, {PS.1 0 }, {PS.2 0 }
  - **[CSF][Cybersecurity Framework]**: {PR.AA-02 0 }
  - **[OpenCRE][OpenCRE]**: {486-813 0 }, {124-564 0 }, {357-352 0 }
  - **[SLSA][Supply-chain Levels for Software Artifacts]**: {Choose an appropriate build platform 0 }
  - **PSSCRM**: {P2.3 0 }, {P3.2 0 }, {P3.5 0 }, {E2.4 0 }, {E2.5 0 }, {D2.2 0 }
  - **[PCIDSS][Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard]**: {2.2.1 0 }, {6.4.1 0 }
  - **[800-161][NIST Special Publication 800-161 - Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management Practices for Systems and Organizations]**: {AC-3 0 }, {AC-4 0 }, {AC-4(21) 0 }, {CM-5 0 }, {CM-7 0 }, {SI-7 0 }


---

### OSPS-BR-02 - All [releases][Release] and [released software assets][Released Software Asset] MUST be assigned a unique [version identifier][Version Identifier] for each [release][Release] intended to be used by [users][User].


Ensure that each software asset produced by the project is uniquely
identified, enabling users to track changes and updates to the project
over time.




#### OSPS-BR-02.01

**Requirement:** When an official [release][Release] is created, that [release][Release] MUST be assigned a unique [version identifier][Version Identifier].

**Recommendation:** 
Assign a unique version identifier to each release produced by the
project, following a consistent naming convention or numbering scheme.
Examples include SemVer, CalVer, or git commit id.


**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 2
- Maturity Level 3




#### OSPS-BR-02.02

**Requirement:** When an official [release][Release] is created, all assets within that [release][Release] MUST be clearly associated with the [release][Release] identifier or another unique identifier for the asset.

**Recommendation:** 
Assign a unique version identifier to each software asset produced by
the project, following a consistent naming convention or numbering
scheme. Examples include SemVer, CalVer, or git commit id.



**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 3




#### External Framework Mappings

  
  - **[BPB][Best Practices Badge]**: {CC-B-5 0 }, {CC-B-6 0 }, {CC-B-7 0 }
  - **[CRA][Cyber Resilience Act]**: {1.2f 0 }
  - **[SSDF][Secure Software Development Framework]**: {PO.3.2 0 }, {PS.1 0 }, {PS.2 0 }, {PS.3 0 }
  - **[OpenCRE][OpenCRE]**: {486-813 0 }, {124-564 0 }
  - **[SLSA][Supply-chain Levels for Software Artifacts]**: {Follow a consistent build process 0 }, {Provenance generation- Exists, Authentic 0 }
  - **PSSCRM**: {G1.4 0 }, {E1.2 0 }, {E2.1 0 }, {E2.6 0 }
  - **[PCIDSS][Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard]**: {6.4.3 0 }
  - **UKSSCOP**: {3.1 0 }
  - **[800-161][NIST Special Publication 800-161 - Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management Practices for Systems and Organizations]**: {IA-4 0 }, {SA-15 0 }, {SI-7 0 }, {SR-4 0 }


---

### OSPS-BR-03 - All official [project][Project] URIs MUST be delivered using encrypted channels.


Protect the confidentiality and integrity of project source code during
development, reducing the risk of eavesdropping or data tampering.




#### OSPS-BR-03.01

**Requirement:** When the [project][Project] lists a URI as an official [project][Project] channel, that URI MUST be exclusively delivered using encrypted channels.

**Recommendation:** 
Configure the project&#39;s websites and version control systems to use
encrypted channels such as SSH or HTTPS for data transmission.
Ensure all tools and domains referenced in project documentation can
only be accessed via encrypted channels.


**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 1
- Maturity Level 2
- Maturity Level 3




#### OSPS-BR-03.02

**Requirement:** When the [project][Project] lists a URI as an official distribution channel, that URI MUST be exclusively delivered using encrypted channels.

**Recommendation:** 
Configure the project&#39;s release pipeline to only fetch data from
websites, API responses, and other services which use encrypted
channels such as SSH or HTTPS for data transmission.



**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 1
- Maturity Level 2
- Maturity Level 3




#### External Framework Mappings

  
  - **[BPB][Best Practices Badge]**: {B-B-11 0 }
  - **[CRA][Cyber Resilience Act]**: {1.2d 0 }, {1.2e 0 }, {1.2f 0 }, {1.2i 0 }, {1.2j 0 }, {1.2k 0 }
  - **[SSDF][Secure Software Development Framework]**: {PO.3.2 0 }, {PO.5.2 0 }, {PS.1 0 }, {PS.2 0 }
  - **[OpenCRE][OpenCRE]**: {483-813 0 }, {124-564 0 }, {263-184 0 }
  - **[SLSA][Supply-chain Levels for Software Artifacts]**: {Choose an appropriate build platform 0 }
  - **PSSCRM**: {E1.1 0 }, {E2.2 0 }, {E2.4 0 }, {E2.5 0 }
  - **[PCIDSS][Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard]**: {2.2.1 0 }, {2.2.7 0 }, {4.2.1 0 }, {4.2.2 0 }, {6.4.1 0 }, {8.3.2 0 }
  - **UKSSCOP**: {3.1 0 }
  - **[800-161][NIST Special Publication 800-161 - Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management Practices for Systems and Organizations]**: {AC-4 0 }, {AC-4(21) 0 }


---

### OSPS-BR-04 - All [releases][Release] MUST provide a descriptive log of functional and security modifications.


Provide transparency and accountability for changes made to the project&#39;s
software releases, enabling users to understand the modifications and
improvements included in each release.




#### OSPS-BR-04.01

**Requirement:** When an official [release][Release] is created, that [release][Release] MUST contain a descriptive log of functional and security modifications.

**Recommendation:** 
Ensure that all releases include a descriptive change log. It is
recommended to ensure that the change log is human-readable and
includes details beyond commit messages, such as descriptions of the
security impact or relevance to different use cases. To ensure
machine readability, place the content under a markdown header
such as &#34;## Changelog&#34;.



**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 2
- Maturity Level 3




#### External Framework Mappings

  
  - **[BPB][Best Practices Badge]**: {CC-B-8 0 }, {CC-B-9 0 }, {Q-B-7 0 }, {A-B-1 0 }, {A-S-1 0 }
  - **[CRA][Cyber Resilience Act]**: {1.2d 0 }, {1.2f 0 }, {1.2h 0 }, {1.2j 0 }, {1.2l 0 }, {2.5 0 }
  - **[SSDF][Secure Software Development Framework]**: {PS.1 0 }, {PS.2 0 }, {PS.3 0 }, {PW.1.2 0 }
  - **[OpenCRE][OpenCRE]**: {483-813 0 }, {068-486 0 }, {124-564 0 }, {757-271 0 }, {347-352 0 }, {263-184 0 }, {208-355 0 }, {745-356 0 }, {732-148 0 }
  - **[SLSA][Supply-chain Levels for Software Artifacts]**: {Choose an appropriate build platform 0 }, {Follow a consistent build process 0 }, {Build platform - Isolation strength - isolated 0 }
  - **PSSCRM**: {G1.4 0 }, {E2.1 0 }, {E2.4 0 }, {E2.5 0 }, {E3.1 0 }, {E3.6 0 }
  - **[PCIDSS][Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard]**: {6.2.1 0 }, {6.4.1 0 }, {6.5.1 0 }, {6.5.2 0 }, {10.2.2 0 }
  - **UKSSCOP**: {3.1 0 }, {3.5 0 }
  - **[800-161][NIST Special Publication 800-161 - Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management Practices for Systems and Organizations]**: {AU-2 0 }, {AU-6 0 }, {AU-10 0 }, {CM-5 0 }, {CM-6 0 }, {MA-1 0 }, {MA-8 0 }, {SI-4 0 }, {SI-5 0 }


---

### OSPS-BR-05 - All [build and release pipelines][Build and Release Pipeline] MUST use standardized tooling where available to ingest dependencies at build time.


Ensure that the project&#39;s build and release pipelines use standardized tools
and processes to manage dependencies, reducing the risk of compatibility
issues or security vulnerabilities in the software.




#### OSPS-BR-05.01

**Requirement:** When a [build and release pipeline][Build and Release Pipeline] ingests dependencies, it MUST use standardized tooling where available.

**Recommendation:** 
Use a common tooling for your ecosystem, such as package managers or
dependency management tools to ingest dependencies at build time. This
may include using a dependency file, lock file, or manifest to specify
the required dependencies, which are then pulled in by the build
system.



**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 2
- Maturity Level 3




#### External Framework Mappings

  
  - **[BPB][Best Practices Badge]**: {Q-B-2 0 }
  - **[CRA][Cyber Resilience Act]**: {1.2b 0 }, {1.2d 0 }, {1.2f 0 }, {1.2h 0 }, {1.2j 0 }, {2.1 0 }, {2.2 0 }, {2.3 0 }
  - **[SSDF][Secure Software Development Framework]**: {PO.3.2 0 }, {PS.1 0 }, {PS.2 0 }
  - **[OpenCRE][OpenCRE]**: {486-813 0 }, {124-564 0 }, {347-352 0 }, {715-334 0 }
  - **[SLSA][Supply-chain Levels for Software Artifacts]**: {Isolation strength - isolated 0 }
  - **PSSCRM**: {P3.1 0 }, {P3.5 0 }, {E2.2 0 }, {E2.3 0 }, {E2.4 0 }, {E2.5 0 }
  - **[SAMM][Proactive Software Supply Chain Risk Management Framework]**: {Implementation -Secure Build -Build Process Lvl2 0 }
  - **[PCIDSS][Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard]**: {6.4.3 0 }
  - **UKSSCOP**: {1.1 0 }, {1.2 0 }
  - **[800-161][NIST Special Publication 800-161 - Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management Practices for Systems and Organizations]**: {AC-4 0 }, {CM-2 0 }, {CM-7(4) 0 }, {CM-7(5) 0 }, {RA-5 0 }, {SA-15 0 }, {SR-3 0 }


---

### OSPS-BR-06 - Produce all [released software assets][Released Software Asset] with signatures and hashes.


All released software assets MUST be signed or accounted for in a
signed manifest including each asset&#39;s cryptographic hashes.




#### OSPS-BR-06.01

**Requirement:** When an official [release][Release] is created, that [release][Release] MUST be signed or accounted for in a signed manifest including each asset&#39;s cryptographic hashes.

**Recommendation:** 
Sign all released software assets at build time with a cryptographic
signature or attestations, such as GPG or PGP signature, Sigstore
signatures, SLSA provenance, or SLSA VSAs. Include the cryptographic
hashes of each asset in a signed manifest or metadata file.


**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 2
- Maturity Level 3




#### External Framework Mappings

  
  - **[SSDF][Secure Software Development Framework]**: {PO.5.2 0 }, {PS.2 0 }, {PS.2.1 0 }, {PW.6.2 0 }
  - **Scorecard**: {Signed-Releases 0 }
  - **[SLSA][Supply-chain Levels for Software Artifacts]**: {Distribute provenance - Exists 0 }
  - **PSSCRM**: {P1.2 0 }, {P3.2 0 }, {P3.3 0 }, {E2.1 0 }, {E2.2 0 }, {E2.6 0 }
  - **[SAMM][Proactive Software Supply Chain Risk Management Framework]**: {Implementation -Secure Deployment -Deployment Process Lvl3 0 }
  - **[PCIDSS][Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard]**: {2.2.1 0 }, {2.2.7 0 }, {3.5.1 0 }, {4.2.1 0 }, {4.2.2 0 }, {6.4.1 0 }, {8.3.2 0 }
  - **UKSSCOP**: {3.1 0 }
  - **[800-161][NIST Special Publication 800-161 - Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management Practices for Systems and Organizations]**: {AU-10 0 }, {MP-1 0 }, {SA-15 0 }, {SI-7 0 }, {SI-7(14) 0 }


---

### OSPS-BR-07 - The [project][Project] MUST store and manage all secrets and credentials used by the [project][Project] in a secure manner.


Ensure that sensitive data is not disclosed, compromised or misused leading to security vulnerabilities or supply chain compromise.




#### OSPS-BR-07.01

**Requirement:** The [project][Project] MUST prevent the unintentional storage of unencrypted [sensitive data][Sensitive Data], such as secrets and credentials, in the [version control system][Version Control System].

**Recommendation:** 
Configure .gitignore or equivalent to exclude files that may contain sensitive information. Use pre-commit hooks and automated scanning tools to detect and prevent the inclusion of sensitive data in commits.


**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 1




#### OSPS-BR-07.02

**Requirement:** The [project][Project] MUST define a policy for managing secrets and credentials used by the [project][Project]. The policy should include guidelines for storing, accessing, and rotating secrets and credentials.

**Recommendation:** 
Document how secrets and credentials are managed and used within the project. This should include details on how secrets are stored (e.g., using a secrets management tool), how access is controlled, and how secrets are rotated or updated. Ensure that sensitive information is not hard-coded in the source code or stored in version control systems.


**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 3




#### External Framework Mappings

  
  - **[BPB][Best Practices Badge]**: {S-B-5 0 }
  - **[SSDF][Secure Software Development Framework]**: {PO.1.1 0 }, {P0.3.1 0 }, {P0.4.2 0 }, {PO.5.1 0 }, {PW.1.2 0 }, {PW.1.3 0 }, {PW.5.1 0 }


---

## Documentation


Documentation focuses on the information
provided to users, contributors, and maintainers
of the project. These controls help ensure that
the project&#39;s documentation is comprehensive,
accurate, and up-to-date, enabling users to
understand the project&#39;s features and functionality, maintenance, support,
security and release practices.




### OSPS-DO-01 - The [project][Project] documentation MUST provide [user][User] guides for all basic functionality.


Ensure that users have a clear and comprehensive understanding of the
project&#39;s current features in order to prevent damage from misuse or
misconfiguration.




#### OSPS-DO-01.01

**Requirement:** When the [project][Project] has made a [release][Release], the [project][Project] documentation MUST include [user][User] guides for all basic functionality.

**Recommendation:** 
Create user guides or documentation for all basic functionality of the
project, explaining how to install, configure, and use the project&#39;s
features. If there are any known dangerous or destructive actions
available, include highly-visible warnings.



**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 1
- Maturity Level 2
- Maturity Level 3




#### External Framework Mappings

  
  - **[BPB][Best Practices Badge]**: {B-B-1 0 }, {B-B-9 0 }, {B-S-7 0 }, {B-S-9 0 }
  - **[CRA][Cyber Resilience Act]**: {1.2b 0 }, {1.2j 0 }, {1.2k 0 }
  - **[SSDF][Secure Software Development Framework]**: {PW.1.2 0 }
  - **[CSF][Cybersecurity Framework]**: {GV.OC-04 0 }, {GV.OC-05 0 }
  - **ISO-[18974][OpenChain]**: {4.1.4 0 }
  - **[OpenCRE][OpenCRE]**: {036-275 0 }
  - **PSSCRM**: {G5.1 0 }, {E3.5 0 }
  - **[PCIDSS][Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard]**: {2.1.1 0 }, {2.2.1 0 }, {3.1.1 0 }, {4.1.1 0 }, {5.1.1 0 }, {6.1.1 0 }, {6.2.1 0 }, {7.1.1 0 }, {8.1.1 0 }, {11.1.1 0 }, {12.10.5 0 }
  - **UKSSCOP**: {4.1 0 }
  - **[800-161][NIST Special Publication 800-161 - Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management Practices for Systems and Organizations]**: {CM-2 0 }, {PL-2 0 }, {PL-8 0 }, {SA-15 0 }


---

### OSPS-DO-02 - The [project][Project] MUST provide a mechanism for reporting [defects][Defect].


Enable users and contributors to report defects or issues with the
released software assets, facilitating communication and collaboration on
defect fixes and improvements.




#### OSPS-DO-02.01

**Requirement:** When the [project][Project] has made a [release][Release], the [project][Project] documentation MUST include a guide for reporting [defects][Defect].

**Recommendation:** 
It is recommended that projects use their VCS default issue tracker.
If an external source is used, ensure that the project documentation
and contributing guide clearly and visibly explain how to use the
reporting system. It is recommended that project documentation also
sets expectations for how defects will be triaged and resolved.



**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 1
- Maturity Level 2
- Maturity Level 3




#### External Framework Mappings

  
  - **[BPB][Best Practices Badge]**: {B-B-3 0 }, {R-B-1&#43; 0 }, {R-B-1 0 }, {R-B-2 0 }, {R-S-2 0 }
  - **[CRA][Cyber Resilience Act]**: {1.2c 0 }, {1.2l 0 }, {2.1 0 }, {2.2 0 }, {2.5 0 }, {2.6 0 }
  - **[SSDF][Secure Software Development Framework]**: {PW.1.2 0 }, {RV.1.1 0 }, {RV.2.1 0 }, {RV.1.2 0 }
  - **[CSF][Cybersecurity Framework]**: {RS.MA-02 0 }, {GV.RM-05 0 }
  - **ISO-[18974][OpenChain]**: {4.2.1 0 }
  - **[SAMM][Proactive Software Supply Chain Risk Management Framework]**: {Implementation -Defect Management -Defect Tracking Lvl1 0 }, {Implementation -Defect Management -Defect Tracking Lvl2 0 }
  - **[PCIDSS][Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard]**: {6.3.2 0 }, {6.3.3 0 }, {6.5.1 0 }, {6.5.2 0 }, {12.10.2 0 }
  - **UKSSCOP**: {1.1 0 }, {1.3 0 }
  - **[800-161][NIST Special Publication 800-161 - Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management Practices for Systems and Organizations]**: {IR-6 0 }, {SI-4 0 }, {SI-5 0 }


---

### OSPS-DO-03 - The [project][Project] documentation MUST contain instructions to verify the integrity and authenticity of the [release][Release] assets, including the expected identity of the [person][User] or process authoring the software [release][Release].


Enable users to verify the authenticity and integrity of the project&#39;s
released software assets, reducing the risk of using tampered or
unauthorized versions of the software.




#### OSPS-DO-03.01

**Requirement:** When the [project][Project] has made a [release][Release], the [project][Project] documentation MUST contain instructions to verify the integrity and authenticity of the [release][Release] assets.

**Recommendation:** 
Instructions in the project should contain information about the
technology used, the commands to run, and the expected output.
When possible, avoid storing this documentation in the same location
as the build and release pipeline to avoid a single breach
compromising both the software and the documentation for verifying the
integrity of the software.


**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 3




#### OSPS-DO-03.02

**Requirement:** When the [project][Project] has made a [release][Release], the [project][Project] documentation MUST contain instructions to verify the expected identity of the [person][User] or process authoring the software [release][Release].

**Recommendation:** 
The expected identity may be in the form of key IDs used to sign,
issuer and identity from a sigstore certificate, or other similar
forms.
When possible, avoid storing this documentation in the same location
as the build and release pipeline to avoid a single breach
compromising both the software and the documentation for verifying the
integrity of the software.



**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 3




#### External Framework Mappings

  
  - **[BPB][Best Practices Badge]**: {CC-B-8 0 }
  - **[CRA][Cyber Resilience Act]**: {1.2d 0 }
  - **[SSDF][Secure Software Development Framework]**: {PO.4.2 0 }, {PS.2 0 }, {PS.2.1 0 }, {PS.3.1 0 }, {RV.1.3 0 }
  - **[OpenCRE][OpenCRE]**: {171-222 0 }
  - **PSSCRM**: {G1.3 0 }, {G2.5 0 }, {P1.2 0 }, {P3.1 0 }, {P3.2 0 }, {P3.3 0 }, {E2.6 0 }
  - **[PCIDSS][Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard]**: {3.1.1 0 }, {3.5.1 0 }, {4.1.1 0 }, {5.1.1 0 }, {6.1.1 0 }, {6.2.1 0 }, {7.1.1 0 }, {8.1.1 0 }, {11.1.1 0 }
  - **UKSSCOP**: {3.1 0 }
  - **[800-161][NIST Special Publication 800-161 - Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management Practices for Systems and Organizations]**: {CM-2 0 }, {IR-1 0 }, {MP-1 0 }, {SA-15 0 }, {SI-7 0 }, {SI-7(14) 0 }


---

### OSPS-DO-04 - The [project][Project] documentation MUST include a descriptive statement about the scope and duration of support.


Provide users with clear expectations regarding the project&#39;s support
lifecycle. This allows downstream consumers to take relevant actions to
ensure the continued functionality and security of their systems.




#### OSPS-DO-04.01

**Requirement:** When the [project][Project] has made a [release][Release], the [project][Project] documentation MUST include a descriptive statement about the scope and duration of support for each [release][Release].

**Recommendation:** 
In order to communicate the scope and duration of support for the
project&#39;s released software assets, the project should have a
SUPPORT.md file, a &#34;Support&#34; section in SECURITY.md, or
other documentation explaining the support lifecycle,
including the expected duration of support for each release, the
types of support provided (e.g., bug fixes, security updates), and
any relevant policies or procedures for obtaining support.



**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 3




#### External Framework Mappings

  
  - **[BPB][Best Practices Badge]**: {R-B-3 0 }
  - **[SSDF][Secure Software Development Framework]**: {PO.4.2 0 }, {PS.3.1 0 }, {RV.1.3 0 }
  - **ISO-[18974][OpenChain]**: {4.1 0 }, {4.3.1 0 }
  - **PSSCRM**: {E1.6 0 }
  - **[SAMM][Proactive Software Supply Chain Risk Management Framework]**: {Operations -Operational Management -System Decommissioning -Legacy Management Lvl1 0 }
  - **[PCIDSS][Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard]**: {2.1.1 0 }, {3.1.1 0 }, {3.2.1 0 }, {4.1.1 0 }, {5.1.1 0 }, {6.1.1 0 }, {6.3.3 0 }, {7.1.1 0 }, {8.1.1 0 }, {11.1.1 0 }
  - **UKSSCOP**: {4.1 0 }, {4.2 0 }
  - **[800-161][NIST Special Publication 800-161 - Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management Practices for Systems and Organizations]**: {PL-1 0 }, {PL-2 0 }, {SI-4 0 }


---

### OSPS-DO-05 - The [project][Project] documentation MUST provide a descriptive statement when [releases][Release] or versions will no longer receive security updates.


Communicating when the project maintainers will no longer fix defects or
security vulnerabilities is crucial for downstream consumers to find
alternative solutions or alternative means of support for the project.




#### OSPS-DO-05.01

**Requirement:** When the [project][Project] has made a [release][Release], the [project][Project] documentation MUST provide a descriptive statement when [releases][Release] or versions will no longer receive security updates.

**Recommendation:** 
In order to communicate the scope and duration of support for security
fixes, the project should have a SUPPORT.md or other documentation
explaining the project&#39;s policy for security updates.



**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 3




#### External Framework Mappings

  
  - **[CRA][Cyber Resilience Act]**: {1.2c 0 }, {2.6 0 }
  - **ISO-[18974][OpenChain]**: {4.1.1 0 }, {4.3.1 0 }
  - **[OpenCRE][OpenCRE]**: {673-475 0 }, {053-751 0 }
  - **PSSCRM**: {E1.6 0 }
  - **[SAMM][Proactive Software Supply Chain Risk Management Framework]**: {Operations -Operational Management -System Decommissioning -Legacy Management Lvl1 0 }, {Operations -Operational Management -System Decommissioning -Legacy Management Lvl2 0 }
  - **[PCIDSS][Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard]**: {3.1.1 0 }, {3.2.1 0 }, {4.1.1 0 }, {5.1.1 0 }, {6.1.1 0 }, {6.3.2 0 }, {7.1.1 0 }, {8.1.1 0 }, {11.1.1 0 }
  - **UKSSCOP**: {3.5 0 }, {4.1 0 }
  - **[800-161][NIST Special Publication 800-161 - Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management Practices for Systems and Organizations]**: {PL-1 0 }, {PL-2 0 }, {SI-4 0 }, {SI-5 0 }


---

### OSPS-DO-06 - The [project][Project] documentation MUST include a description of how the [project][Project] selects, obtains, and tracks its dependencies.


Provide information about how the project selects, obtains, and tracks
dependencies, libraries, frameworks, etc. to help downstream consumers
understand how the project operates in regards to third-party components
that are required necessary for the software to function.




#### OSPS-DO-06.01

**Requirement:** When the [project][Project] has made a [release][Release], the [project][Project] documentation MUST include a description of how the [project][Project] selects, obtains, and tracks its dependencies.

**Recommendation:** 
It is recommended to publish this information alongside the project&#39;s
technical &amp; design documentation on a publicly viewable resource such
as the source code repository, project website, or other channel.


**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 2
- Maturity Level 3




#### External Framework Mappings

  
  - **[BPB][Best Practices Badge]**: {A-S-1 0 }
  - **[CRA][Cyber Resilience Act]**: {2.1 0 }
  - **[OpenCRE][OpenCRE]**: {613-286 0 }, {053-751 0 }
  - **Scorecard**: {Pinned-Dependencies 0 }
  - **PSSCRM**: {G1.4 0 }, {G2.4 0 }, {P3.1 0 }, {P3.2 0 }, {P3.4 0 }
  - **[SAMM][Proactive Software Supply Chain Risk Management Framework]**: {Design -Security Requirements -Supplier Security Lvl2 0 }
  - **[PCIDSS][Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard]**: {2.1.1 0 }, {3.1.1 0 }, {4.1.1 0 }, {5.1.1 0 }, {6.1.1 0 }, {6.3.2 0 }, {6.4.3 0 }, {7.1.1 0 }, {8.1.1 0 }, {11.1.1 0 }, {12.5.2 0 }
  - **UKSSCOP**: {1.2 0 }, {3.3 0 }
  - **[800-161][NIST Special Publication 800-161 - Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management Practices for Systems and Organizations]**: {CA-7 0 }, {CM-7(5) 0 }, {CM-8 0 }, {PM-30 0 }, {RA-3(1) 0 }, {SA-11 0 }, {SI-4 0 }, {SR-3 0 }, {SR-5 0 }, {SR-6 0 }, {SR-7 0 }


---

## Governance


Governance focuses on the policies and
procedures that guide the project&#39;s decision-making
and community interactions. These controls help ensure
that the project is well positioned to respond to
both threats and opportunities.




### OSPS-GV-01 - The [project][Project] documentation MUST include the roles and responsibilities for members of the [project][Project].


Documenting project roles and responsibilities helps project participants,
potential contributors, and downstream consumers have an accurate
understanding of who is working on the project and what areas of authority
they may have.




#### OSPS-GV-01.01

**Requirement:** While active, the [project][Project] documentation MUST include a list of [project][Project] members with access to [sensitive resources][Sensitive Resource].

**Recommendation:** 
Document project participants and their roles through such artifacts
as members.md, governance.md, maintainers.md, or similar file within
the source code repository of the project.
This may be as simple as including names or account handles in a list
of maintainers, or more complex depending on the project&#39;s governance.


**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 2
- Maturity Level 3




#### OSPS-GV-01.02

**Requirement:** While active, the [project][Project] documentation MUST include descriptions of the roles and responsibilities for members of the [project][Project].

**Recommendation:** 
Document project participants and their roles through such artifacts
as members.md, governance.md, maintainers.md, or similar file within
the source code repository of the project.



**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 2
- Maturity Level 3




#### External Framework Mappings

  
  - **[BPB][Best Practices Badge]**: {B-S-3 0 }, {B-S-4 0 }
  - **[OpenCRE][OpenCRE]**: {013-021 0 }
  - **PSSCRM**: {G2.3 0 }, {E3.1 0 }, {E3.3 0 }
  - **[PCIDSS][Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard]**: {2.1.2 0 }, {3.1.1 0 }, {3.1.2 0 }, {4.1.1 0 }, {4.1.2 0 }, {5.1.1 0 }, {5.1.2 0 }, {6.1.1 0 }, {6.1.2 0 }, {6.5.4 0 }, {7.1.1 0 }, {7.1.2 0 }, {8.1.1 0 }, {8.1.2 0 }, {11.1.1 0 }, {11.1.2 0 }, {12.1.3 0 }, {12.5.2 0 }
  - **[800-161][NIST Special Publication 800-161 - Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management Practices for Systems and Organizations]**: {AC-2 0 }, {AC-3 0 }, {IA-2 0 }, {PL-1 0 }, {PL-4 0 }, {PM-30 0 }


---

### OSPS-GV-02 - The [project][Project] MUST have one or more mechanisms for public discussions about proposed [changes][Change] and usage obstacles.


Encourages open communication and collaboration within the project
community, enabling users to provide feedback and discuss proposed changes
or usage challenges.




#### OSPS-GV-02.01

**Requirement:** While active, the [project][Project] MUST have one or more mechanisms for public discussions about proposed [changes][Change] and usage obstacles.

**Recommendation:** 
Establish one or more mechanisms for public discussions within the
project, such as mailing lists, instant messaging, or issue trackers,
to facilitate open communication and feedback.



**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 1
- Maturity Level 2
- Maturity Level 3




#### External Framework Mappings

  
  - **[BPB][Best Practices Badge]**: {B-B-3 0 }, {B-B-12 0 }
  - **[CRA][Cyber Resilience Act]**: {1.2l 0 }, {2.3 0 }, {2.4 0 }, {2.6 0 }
  - **[SSDF][Secure Software Development Framework]**: {PS.3 0 }, {PW.1.2 0 }
  - **[PCIDSS][Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard]**: {12.5.2 0 }
  - **[800-161][NIST Special Publication 800-161 - Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management Practices for Systems and Organizations]**: {AC-21 0 }, {AU-6 0 }, {PL-1 0 }


---

### OSPS-GV-03 - The [project][Project] documentation MUST include an explanation of the contribution process.


Provide guidance to new contributors on how to participate in the project,
outlining the steps required to submit changes or enhancements to the
project&#39;s codebase.




#### OSPS-GV-03.01

**Requirement:** While active, the [project][Project] documentation MUST include an explanation of the contribution process.

**Recommendation:** 
Create a CONTRIBUTING.md or CONTRIBUTING/ directory to outline the
contribution process including the steps for submitting changes, and
engaging with the project maintainers.


**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 1
- Maturity Level 2
- Maturity Level 3




#### OSPS-GV-03.02

**Requirement:** While active, the [project][Project] documentation MUST include a guide for [code][Code] [contributors][Contributor] that includes requirements for acceptable contributions.

**Recommendation:** 
Extend the CONTRIBUTING.md or CONTRIBUTING/ contents in the project
documentation to outline the requirements for acceptable
contributions, including coding standards, testing requirements, and
submission guidelines for code contributors. It is recommended that
this guide is the source of truth for both contributors and approvers.



**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 2
- Maturity Level 3




#### External Framework Mappings

  
  - **[BPB][Best Practices Badge]**: {B-B-4 0 }, {B-S-3 0 }, {B-B-4&#43; 0 }, {R-B-1 0 }, {Q-G-2 0 }
  - **[CRA][Cyber Resilience Act]**: {1.2l 0 }, {2.4 0 }
  - **[SSDF][Secure Software Development Framework]**: {PW.1.2 0 }
  - **ISO-[18974][OpenChain]**: {4.1.2 0 }
  - **PSSCRM**: {G2.4 0 }, {P2.2 0 }
  - **[PCIDSS][Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard]**: {2.1.1 0 }, {6.5.4 0 }, {8.2.1 0 }, {12.5.2 0 }
  - **[800-161][NIST Special Publication 800-161 - Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management Practices for Systems and Organizations]**: {AC-3 0 }, {AC-20 0 }, {PL-1 0 }


---

### OSPS-GV-04 - The [project][Project] documentation MUST have a policy that [code][Code] [contributors][Contributor] are reviewed prior to granting escalated permissions to sensitive resources.


Ensure that code contributors are vetted and reviewed before being granted
elevated permissions to sensitive resources within the project, reducing
the risk of unauthorized access or misuse.




#### OSPS-GV-04.01

**Requirement:** While active, the [project][Project] documentation MUST have a policy that [code][Code] [collaborators][Collaborator] are reviewed prior to granting escalated permissions to [sensitive resources][Sensitive Resource].

**Recommendation:** 
Publish an enforceable policy in the project documentation that
requires code collaborators to be reviewed and approved before being
granted escalated permissions to sensitive resources, such as merge
approval or access to secrets. It is recommended that vetting includes
establishing a justifiable lineage of identity such as confirming the
contributor&#39;s association with a known trusted organization.

**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 3




#### External Framework Mappings

  
  - **[BPB][Best Practices Badge]**: {B-B-5 0 }, {B-S-3 0 }, {B-B-4&#43; 0 }, {Q-G-2 0 }
  - **[CRA][Cyber Resilience Act]**: {1.2d 0 }, {1.2l 0 }, {2.1 0 }, {2.2 0 }, {2.5 0 }, {2.6 0 }
  - **[SSDF][Secure Software Development Framework]**: {PO.2 0 }, {PO.3.2 0 }
  - **[CSF][Cybersecurity Framework]**: {PR.AA-02 0 }, {PR.AA-05 0 }
  - **[OpenCRE][OpenCRE]**: {123-124 0 }, {152-725 0 }
  - **ISO-[18974][OpenChain]**: {4.1.2 0 }
  - **PSSCRM**: {E3.1 0 }, {E3.3 0 }
  - **[PCIDSS][Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard]**: {2.1.1 0 }, {6.5.4 0 }, {8.2.1 0 }, {8.2.2 0 }
  - **[800-161][NIST Special Publication 800-161 - Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management Practices for Systems and Organizations]**: {AC-2 0 }, {AC-3 0 }, {AC-4(21) 0 }, {AC-5 0 }, {AC-6 0 }, {AC-20 0 }, {CM-7 0 }, {IR-4(6) 0 }, {PM-30 0 }, {SI-4 0 }


---

## Legal


Legal focuses on the policies and
procedures that govern the project&#39;s licensing
and intellectual property. These controls help
ensure that the project&#39;s source code is
distributed under a recognized and legally
enforceable open source software license,
reducing the risk of intellectual property
disputes or licensing violations.




### OSPS-LE-01 - The [version control system][Version Control System] MUST require all [code][Code] [contributors][Contributor] to assert that they are legally authorized to make the associated contributions on every [commit][Commit].


Ensure that code contributors are aware of and acknowledge their legal
responsibility for the contributions they make to the project, reducing
the risk of intellectual property disputes against the project.




#### OSPS-LE-01.01

**Requirement:** While active, the [version control system][Version Control System] MUST require all [code][Code] [contributors][Contributor] to assert that they are legally authorized to make the associated contributions on every [commit][Commit].

**Recommendation:** 
Include a DCO in the project&#39;s repository, requiring code
contributors to assert that they are legally authorized to commit the
associated contributions on every commit. Use a status check to ensure
the assertion is made. A CLA also satisfies this requirement.
Some version control systems, such as GitHub, may include this in the
platform terms of service.

It is understood that projects with a lengthy history prior to
adopting OSPS Baseline may not be able to retroactively enforce this
requirement.



**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 2
- Maturity Level 3




#### External Framework Mappings

  
  - **[BPB][Best Practices Badge]**: {B-S-1 0 }
  - **[CRA][Cyber Resilience Act]**: {1.2b 0 }, {1.2f 0 }
  - **[SSDF][Secure Software Development Framework]**: {PO.3.2 0 }, {PS.1 0 }, {PW.1.2 0 }, {PW.2.1 0 }
  - **PSSCRM**: {E3.1 0 }
  - **[PCIDSS][Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard]**: {12.8.5 0 }
  - **[800-161][NIST Special Publication 800-161 - Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management Practices for Systems and Organizations]**: {PL-4 0 }


---

### OSPS-LE-02 - All [licenses][License] for the [project][Project] MUST meet the OSI Open Source Definition or the FSF Free Software Definition.


Ensure that the project&#39;s source code is distributed under a recognized
and legally enforceable open source software license, providing clarity on
how the code can be used and shared by others.




#### OSPS-LE-02.01

**Requirement:** While active, the [license][License] for the source [code][Code] MUST meet the OSI Open Source Definition or the FSF Free Software Definition.

**Recommendation:** 
Add a LICENSE file to the project&#39;s repo with a license that is an
approved license by the Open Source Initiative (OSI), or a free
license as approved by the Free Software Foundation (FSF). Examples of
such licenses include the MIT, BSD 2-clause, BSD 3-clause revised,
Apache 2.0, Lesser GNU General Public License (LGPL), and the GNU
General Public License (GPL). Releasing to the public domain meets
this control if there are no other encumbrances such as patents.


**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 1
- Maturity Level 2
- Maturity Level 3




#### OSPS-LE-02.02

**Requirement:** While active, the [license][License] for the [released software assets][Released Software Asset] MUST meet the OSI Open Source Definition or the FSF Free Software Definition.

**Recommendation:** 
If a different license is included with released software assets,
ensure it is an approved license by the Open Source Initiative (OSI),
or a free license as approved by the Free Software Foundation (FSF).
Examples of such licenses include the MIT, BSD 2-clause, BSD 3-clause
revised, Apache 2.0, Lesser GNU General Public License (LGPL), and the
GNU General Public License (GPL). Note that the license for the
released software assets may be different than the source code.



**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 1
- Maturity Level 2
- Maturity Level 3




#### External Framework Mappings

  
  - **[BPB][Best Practices Badge]**: {B-B-6 0 }, {B-B-7 0 }
  - **[CRA][Cyber Resilience Act]**: {1.2b 0 }
  - **[SSDF][Secure Software Development Framework]**: {PO.3.2 0 }
  - **[CSF][Cybersecurity Framework]**: {GV.OC-03 0 }
  - **Scorecard**: {License 0 }
  - **PSSCRM**: {G1.2 0 }
  - **[PCIDSS][Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard]**: {3.2.1 0 }
  - **[800-161][NIST Special Publication 800-161 - Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management Practices for Systems and Organizations]**: {PL-4 0 }


---

### OSPS-LE-03 - All [licenses][License] for the [project][Project]&#39;s source [code][Code] MUST be maintained in a standard location within the corresponding [repository][Repository].


Ensure that the project&#39;s source code and released software assets are
distributed with the appropriate license terms, making it clear to users
and contributors how each can be used and shared.




#### OSPS-LE-03.01

**Requirement:** While active, the [license][License] for the source [code][Code] MUST be maintained in the corresponding [repository][Repository]&#39;s [LICENSE][License] file, COPYING file, or [LICENSE][License]/ directory.

**Recommendation:** 
Include the project&#39;s source code license in the project&#39;s LICENSE
file, COPYING file, or LICENSE/ directory to provide visibility and
clarity on the licensing terms. The filename MAY have an extension.
If the project has multiple repositories, ensure that each repository
includes the license file.


**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 1
- Maturity Level 2
- Maturity Level 3




#### OSPS-LE-03.02

**Requirement:** While active, the [license][License] for the [released software assets][Released Software Asset] MUST be included in the released source [code][Code], or in a [LICENSE][License] file, COPYING file, or [LICENSE][License]/ directory alongside the corresponding [release][Release] assets.

**Recommendation:** 
Include the project&#39;s released software assets license in the released
source code, or in a LICENSE file, COPYING file, or LICENSE/ directory
alongside the corresponding release assets to provide visibility and
clarity on the licensing terms. The filename MAY have an extension.
If the project has multiple repositories, ensure that each repository
includes the license file.


**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 1
- Maturity Level 2
- Maturity Level 3




#### External Framework Mappings

  
  - **[BPB][Best Practices Badge]**: {B-B-8 0 }
  - **[CRA][Cyber Resilience Act]**: {1.2b 0 }
  - **[SSDF][Secure Software Development Framework]**: {PO.3.2 0 }
  - **Scorecard**: {License 0 }
  - **PSSCRM**: {G1.2 0 }
  - **[PCIDSS][Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard]**: {3.2.1 0 }
  - **[800-161][NIST Special Publication 800-161 - Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management Practices for Systems and Organizations]**: {PL-4 0 }


---

## Quality


Quality focuses on the processes and
practices used to ensure the quality and
reliability of the project&#39;s source code and
software assets. These controls help ensure
that the project&#39;s source code is well
maintained, secure, and reliable, reducing the
risk of defects or vulnerabilities in the
software.




### OSPS-QA-01 - The [project][Project]&#39;s source [code][Code] and [change][Change] history MUST be publicly readable at a static URL.


Enable users to access and review the project&#39;s source code and history,
promoting transparency and collaboration within the project community.




#### OSPS-QA-01.01

**Requirement:** While active, the [project][Project]&#39;s source [code][Code] [repository][Repository] MUST be publicly readable at a static URL.

**Recommendation:** 
Use a common VCS such as GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket. Ensure the
repository is publicly readable. Avoid duplication or mirroring of
repositories unless highly visible documentation clarifies the primary
source. Avoid frequent changes to the repository that would impact the
repository URL. Ensure the repository is public.


**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 1
- Maturity Level 2
- Maturity Level 3




#### OSPS-QA-01.02

**Requirement:** The [version control system][Version Control System] MUST contain a publicly readable record of all [changes][Change] made, who made the [changes][Change], and when the [changes][Change] were made.

**Recommendation:** 
Use a common VCS such as GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket to maintain a
publicly readable commit history. Avoid squashing or rewriting commits
in a way that would obscure the author of any commits.



**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 1
- Maturity Level 2
- Maturity Level 3




#### External Framework Mappings

  
  - **[BPB][Best Practices Badge]**: {CC-B-1 0 }, {CC-B-2 0 }, {CC-B-3 0 }, {R-B-5 0 }
  - **[CRA][Cyber Resilience Act]**: {1.2b 0 }, {1.2f 0 }, {1.2j 0 }
  - **[SSDF][Secure Software Development Framework]**: {PS.1 0 }, {PS.2 0 }, {PS.3 0 }, {PW.1.2 0 }, {PW.2.1 0 }
  - **[OpenCRE][OpenCRE]**: {486-813 0 }, {124-564 0 }, {757-271 0 }
  - **[CSF][Cybersecurity Framework]**: {ID.AM-02 0 }, {ID.RA-01 0 }, {ID.RA-08 0 }
  - **ISO-[18974][OpenChain]**: {4.1.4 0 }
  - **[SLSA][Supply-chain Levels for Software Artifacts]**: {Build platform - isolation strength - Isolated 0 }
  - **PSSCRM**: {P3.5 0 }, {E2.2 0 }
  - **[SAMM][Proactive Software Supply Chain Risk Management Framework]**: {Implementation -Secure Build -Build Process Lvl1 0 }
  - **[PCIDSS][Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard]**: {2.1.1 0 }, {6.2.1 0 }, {6.5.1 0 }, {6.5.2 0 }
  - **[800-161][NIST Special Publication 800-161 - Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management Practices for Systems and Organizations]**: {RA-5 0 }, {SA-11 0 }, {SA-15 0 }


---

### OSPS-QA-02 - The [project][Project] MUST provide a list of dependencies used in the software.


Provide transparency and accountability for the project&#39;s dependencies
while enabling users and contributors to understand the software&#39;s direct
dependencies.




#### OSPS-QA-02.01

**Requirement:** When the package management system supports it, the source [code][Code] [repository][Repository] MUST contain a dependency list that accounts for the direct language dependencies.

**Recommendation:** 
This may take the form of a package manager or language dependency file
that enumerates all direct dependencies such as package.json, Gemfile,
or go.mod.


**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 1
- Maturity Level 2
- Maturity Level 3




#### OSPS-QA-02.02

**Requirement:** When the [project][Project] has made a [release][Release], all compiled released software assets MUST be delivered with a [software bill of materials][Software Bill of Materials].

**Recommendation:** 
It is recommended to auto-generate SBOMs at build time using a tool
that has been vetted for accuracy. This enables users to ingest this
data in a standardized approach alongside other projects in their
environment.



**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 3




#### External Framework Mappings

  
  - **[BPB][Best Practices Badge]**: {Q-S-8 0 }, {Q-S-9 0 }
  - **[CRA][Cyber Resilience Act]**: {2.1 0 }, {2.2 0 }, {2.3 0 }
  - **[SSDF][Secure Software Development Framework]**: {PO.3.3 0 }, {PS.1 0 }, {PS.2 0 }, {PS.3.2 0 }, {PW.4 0 }
  - **[CSF][Cybersecurity Framework]**: {ID.AM.01 0 }, {ID.AM-02 0 }
  - **ISO-[18974][OpenChain]**: {4.1.5 0 }, {4.3.1 0 }
  - **[OpenCRE][OpenCRE]**: {486-813 0 }, {124-564 0 }, {673-475 0 }, {863-521 0 }, {613-286 0 }
  - **PSSCRM**: {G1.4 0 }, {G1.5 0 }, {G2.5 0 }, {P3.1 0 }, {P3.2 0 }, {P5.1 0 }, {P5.2 0 }, {E2.1 0 }, {E2.2 0 }
  - **[SAMM][Proactive Software Supply Chain Risk Management Framework]**: {Implementation -Secure Build -Software Dependencies Lvl1 0 }
  - **[PCIDSS][Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard]**: {6.3.2 0 }, {6.4.3 0 }, {12.5.1 0 }
  - **UKSSCOP**: {1.2 0 }
  - **[800-161][NIST Special Publication 800-161 - Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management Practices for Systems and Organizations]**: {CA-7 0 }, {CM-2 0 }, {CM-8 0 }, {PL-8 0 }, {RA-3(1) 0 }, {RA-5 0 }, {SA-11 0 }, {SA-15 0 }, {SR-3 0 }, {SR-4 0 }


---

### OSPS-QA-03 - Any automated [status checks][Status Check] for [commits][Commit] MUST pass or require manual acknowledgement prior to merge.


Ensure that the project&#39;s approvers do not become accustomed to tolerating
failing status checks, even if arbitrary, because it increases the risk of
overlooking security vulnerabilities or defects identified by automated
checks.




#### OSPS-QA-03.01

**Requirement:** When a [commit][Commit] is made to the [primary branch][Primary Branch], any automated status checks for [commits][Commit] MUST pass or be manually bypassed.

**Recommendation:** 
Configure the project&#39;s version control system to require that all
automated status checks pass or require manual acknowledgement before a
commit can be merged into the primary branch. It is recommended that
any optional status checks are NOT configured as a pass or fail
requirement that approvers may be tempted to bypass.



**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 2
- Maturity Level 3




#### External Framework Mappings

  
  - **[CRA][Cyber Resilience Act]**: {1.2f 0 }, {1.2k 0 }
  - **[SSDF][Secure Software Development Framework]**: {PO.4.1 0 }, {PS.1 0 }, {PS.2 0 }, {RV.1.2 0 }
  - **[CSF][Cybersecurity Framework]**: {ID.IM-02 0 }
  - **ISO-[18974][OpenChain]**: {4.1.5 0 }
  - **[OpenCRE][OpenCRE]**: {263-184 0 }, {253-452 0 }
  - **PSSCRM**: {G2.2 0 }, {G5.3 0 }, {G5.4 0 }, {P3.5 0 }, {P4.1 0 }, {P4.2 0 }
  - **[SAMM][Proactive Software Supply Chain Risk Management Framework]**: {Implementation -Secure Build -Build Process Lvl3 0 }, {Implementation -Secure Build -Software Dependencies Lvl3 0 }, {Verification -Requirements Testing -Control Verification Lvl1 0 }, {Verification -Requirements Testing -Control Verification Lvl2 0 }, {Verification -Requirements Testing -Control Verification Lvl3 0 }
  - **[PCIDSS][Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard]**: {6.3.1 0 }, {6.3.2 0 }, {6.5.2 0 }
  - **[800-161][NIST Special Publication 800-161 - Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management Practices for Systems and Organizations]**: {AU-6 0 }, {CM-3 0 }, {CM-6 0 }, {PL-8 0 }, {SA-11 0 }, {SA-15 0 }, {SR-3 0 }


---

### OSPS-QA-04 - Any additional [subproject][Subproject] [code][Code] [repositories][Repository] produced by the [project][Project] and compiled into a [release][Release] MUST enforce security requirements as applicable to the status and intent of the respective codebase.


Ensure that additional code repositories or subprojects produced by the
project are held to a standard that is clear and appropriate for that
codebase.




#### OSPS-QA-04.01

**Requirement:** While active, the [project][Project] documentation MUST contain a list of any codebases that are considered [subprojects][Subproject].

**Recommendation:** 
Document any additional subproject code repositories produced by the
project and compiled into a release. This documentation should include
the status and intent of the respective codebase.


**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 1
- Maturity Level 2
- Maturity Level 3




#### OSPS-QA-04.02

**Requirement:** When the [project][Project] has made a [release][Release] comprising multiple source [code][Code] [repositories][Repository], all [subprojects][Subproject] MUST enforce security requirements that are as strict or stricter than the primary codebase.

**Recommendation:** 
Any additional subproject code repositories produced by the project
and compiled into a release must enforce security requirements as
applicable to the status and intent of the respective codebase.
In addition to following the corresponding OSPS Baseline requirements,
this may include requiring a security review, ensuring that it is
free of vulnerabilities, and ensuring that it is free of known
security issues.



**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 3




#### External Framework Mappings

  
  - **[CRA][Cyber Resilience Act]**: {1.2b 0 }, {1.2f 0 }
  - **[SSDF][Secure Software Development Framework]**: {PO.3.2 0 }, {PO.4.1 0 }, {PS.1 0 }, {PS.2 0 }, {RV.1.2 0 }
  - **[OpenCRE][OpenCRE]**: {486-813 0 }, {124-564 0 }
  - **[SLSA][Supply-chain Levels for Software Artifacts]**: {Build platform - isolation strength - Isolated 0 }
  - **Scorecard**: {Binary-Artifacts 0 }
  - **PSSCRM**: {G2.2 0 }, {G5.4 0 }
  - **[PCIDSS][Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard]**: {6.4.2 0 }
  - **[800-161][NIST Special Publication 800-161 - Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management Practices for Systems and Organizations]**: {PL-8 0 }, {SA-15 0 }


---

### OSPS-QA-05 - The [version control system][Version Control System] MUST NOT contain generated executable artifacts.


Reduce the risk of including generated executable artifacts in the
project&#39;s version control system, ensuring that only source code and
necessary files are stored in the repository.




#### OSPS-QA-05.01

**Requirement:** While active, the [version control system][Version Control System] MUST NOT contain generated executable artifacts.

**Recommendation:** 
Remove generated executable artifacts in the project&#39;s version control
system. It is recommended that any scenario where a generated
executable artifact appears critical to a process such as testing, it
should be instead be generated at build time or stored separately and
fetched during a specific well-documented pipeline step.


**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 1
- Maturity Level 2
- Maturity Level 3




#### OSPS-QA-05.02

**Requirement:** While active, the [version control system][Version Control System] MUST NOT contain unreviewable binary artifacts.

**Recommendation:** 
Do not add any unreviewable binary artifacts to the project&#39;s version
control system. This includes executable application binaries, library
files, and similar artifacts. It does not include assets such as
graphical images, sound or music files, and similar content typically
stored in a binary format.



**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 1
- Maturity Level 2
- Maturity Level 3




#### External Framework Mappings

  
  - **[CRA][Cyber Resilience Act]**: {1.2b 0 }
  - **[SSDF][Secure Software Development Framework]**: {PS.1 0 }, {PS.2 0 }
  - **[OpenCRE][OpenCRE]**: {486-813 0 }, {124-564 0 }
  - **[PCIDSS][Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard]**: {6.4.3 0 }
  - **[800-161][NIST Special Publication 800-161 - Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management Practices for Systems and Organizations]**: {PL-8 0 }, {SA-15 0 }, {SR-3 0 }


---

### OSPS-QA-06 - The [project][Project] MUST use at least one [automated test suite][Automated Test Suite] for the source [code][Code] [repository][Repository].


Ensure that the project uses at least one automated test suite for the
source code repository and clearly documents when and how tests are run.




#### OSPS-QA-06.01

**Requirement:** Prior to a [commit][Commit] being accepted, the [project][Project]&#39;s [CI/CD pipelines][CI/CD Pipeline] MUST run at least one [automated test suite][Automated Test Suite] to ensure the [changes][Change] meet expectations.

**Recommendation:** 
Automated tests should be run prior to every merge into the primary
branch. The test suite should be run in a CI/CD pipeline and the
results should be visible to all contributors. The test suite should
be run in a consistent environment and should be run in a way that
allows contributors to run the tests locally.
Examples of test suites include unit tests, integration tests, and
end-to-end tests.


**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 2
- Maturity Level 3




#### OSPS-QA-06.02

**Requirement:** While active, [project][Project]&#39;s documentation MUST clearly document when and how tests are run.

**Recommendation:** 
Add a section to the contributing documentation that explains how to
run the tests locally and how to run the tests in the CI/CD pipeline.
The documentation should explain what the tests are testing and how to
interpret the results.


**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 3




#### OSPS-QA-06.03

**Requirement:** While active, the [project][Project]&#39;s documentation MUST include a policy that all major [changes][Change] to the software produced by the [project][Project] should add or update tests of the functionality in an [automated test suite][Automated Test Suite].

**Recommendation:** 
Add a section to the contributing documentation that explains the
policy for adding or updating tests. The policy should explain what
constitutes a major change and what tests should be added or updated.



**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 3




#### External Framework Mappings

  
  - **[BPB][Best Practices Badge]**: {Q-B-4 0 }, {Q-B-8 0 }, {Q-B-9 0 }, {Q-B-10 0 }, {Q-S-2 0 }
  - **[CRA][Cyber Resilience Act]**: {2.3 0 }
  - **[SSDF][Secure Software Development Framework]**: {PW.8.2 0 }
  - **[CSF][Cybersecurity Framework]**: {ID.AM-02 0 }
  - **ISO-[18974][OpenChain]**: {4.1.5 0 }
  - **[OpenCRE][OpenCRE]**: {207-435 0 }, {088-377 0 }
  - **Scorecard**: {CI-Tests 0 }
  - **PSSCRM**: {P4.1 0 }, {P4.2 0 }, {P4.3 0 }, {P4.4 0 }, {E2.4 0 }, {E2.5 0 }
  - **[SAMM][Proactive Software Supply Chain Risk Management Framework]**: {Verification-Requirements -Testing -Control Verification Lvl1 0 }, {Verification-Requirements -Testing -Control Verification Lvl2 0 }, {Verification-Requirements -Testing -Control Verification Lvl3 0 }, {Verification -Security Testing -Scalable Baseline Lvl3 0 }
  - **[PCIDSS][Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard]**: {6.2.3 0 }, {6.3.1 0 }, {6.3.2 0 }, {6.4.2 0 }
  - **[800-161][NIST Special Publication 800-161 - Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management Practices for Systems and Organizations]**: {SA-11 0 }, {SA-15 0 }, {SR-3 0 }


---

### OSPS-QA-07 - The [project][Project]&#39;s [version control system][Version Control System] MUST require at least one non-author human approval of [changes][Change] to the [primary branch][Primary Branch].


Ensure that the project&#39;s version control system requires at least one
non-author human approval of changes before merging into the release or primary
branch.




#### OSPS-QA-07.01

**Requirement:** When a [commit][Commit] is made to the [primary branch][Primary Branch], the [project][Project]&#39;s version control system MUST require at least one non-author human approval of the [changes][Change] before merging.

**Recommendation:** 
Configure the project&#39;s version control system to require at least one
non-author human approval of changes before merging into the release or
primary branch. This can be achieved by requiring a pull request to be
reviewed and approved by at least one other collaborator before it can
be merged.


**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 3




#### External Framework Mappings

  
  - **[BPB][Best Practices Badge]**: {B-G-3 0 }
  - **Scorecard**: {Code-Review 0 }
  - **PSSCRM**: {G2.4 0 }, {P3.3 0 }, {P3.5 0 }
  - **[PCIDSS][Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard]**: {6.2.3.1 0 }, {6.4.2 0 }, {6.5.4 0 }
  - **[800-161][NIST Special Publication 800-161 - Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management Practices for Systems and Organizations]**: {AC-5 0 }, {AU-6 0 }, {PL-8 0 }, {SA-15 0 }, {SR-3 0 }


---

## Security Assessment


Security Assessment encourages practices that
help ensure that the project is well positioned
to identify and address security vulnerabilities
and threats in the software.




### OSPS-SA-01 - The [project][Project] documentation MUST provide design documentation demonstrating all actions and actors within the system.


Provide an overview of the project&#39;s design and architecture, illustrating
the interactions and components of the system to help contributors and
security reviewers understand the internal logic of the released software
assets.




#### OSPS-SA-01.01

**Requirement:** When the [project][Project] has made a [release][Release], the [project][Project] documentation MUST include design documentation demonstrating all actions and actors within the system.

**Recommendation:** 
Include designs in the project documentation that explains the actions
and actors. Actors include any subsystem or entity that can influence
another segment in the system.
Ensure this is updated for new features or breaking changes.




**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 2
- Maturity Level 3




#### External Framework Mappings

  
  - **[BPB][Best Practices Badge]**: {B-B-1 0 }, {B-S-7 0 }, {B-S-8 0 }
  - **[CRA][Cyber Resilience Act]**: {1.2a 0 }, {1.2b 0 }
  - **[SSDF][Secure Software Development Framework]**: {PO.1 0 }, {PO.2 0 }, {PO.3.2 0 }
  - **[CSF][Cybersecurity Framework]**: {ID.AM-02 0 }
  - **[OpenCRE][OpenCRE]**: {155-155 0 }, {326-704 0 }, {068-102 0 }, {036-275 0 }, {162-655 0 }
  - **PSSCRM**: {G5.1 0 }, {P1.1 0 }, {E3.4 0 }, {E3.7 0 }
  - **[SAMM][Proactive Software Supply Chain Risk Management Framework]**: {Operations -Operational Management -Data Protection Lvl2 0 }
  - **[PCIDSS][Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard]**: {2.2.1 0 }, {2.2.3 0 }, {2.2.4 0 }, {2.2.5 0 }, {2.2.6 0 }, {3.1.1 0 }, {4.1.1 0 }, {5.1.1 0 }, {6.1.1 0 }, {6.2.1 0 }, {7.1.1 0 }, {8.1.1 0 }, {11.1.1 0 }, {12.3.1 0 }, {12.5.3 0 }
  - **UKSSCOP**: {1.4 0 }
  - **[800-161][NIST Special Publication 800-161 - Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management Practices for Systems and Organizations]**: {CM-2 0 }, {PL-8 0 }, {RA-3 0 }, {SA-15 0 }


---

### OSPS-SA-02 - The [project][Project] documentation MUST include descriptions of all external software interfaces of the [released software assets][Released Software Asset].


Provide users and developers with an understanding of how to interact with
the project&#39;s software and integrate it with other systems, enabling them
to use the software effectively.




#### OSPS-SA-02.01

**Requirement:** When the [project][Project] has made a [release][Release], the [project][Project] documentation MUST include descriptions of all external software interfaces of the [released software assets][Released Software Asset].

**Recommendation:** 
Document all software interfaces (APIs) of the released software
assets, explaining how users can interact with the software and what
data is expected or produced.
Ensure this is updated for new features or breaking changes.



**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 2
- Maturity Level 3




#### External Framework Mappings

  
  - **[BPB][Best Practices Badge]**: {B-B-10 0 }, {B-S-7 0 }
  - **[CRA][Cyber Resilience Act]**: {1.2a 0 }, {1.2b 0 }
  - **[SSDF][Secure Software Development Framework]**: {PW.1.2 0 }
  - **[CSF][Cybersecurity Framework]**: {GV.OC-05 0 }, {ID.AM-01 0 }
  - **ISO-[18974][OpenChain]**: {4.1.4 0 }
  - **[OpenCRE][OpenCRE]**: {155-155 0 }, {068-102 0 }, {072-713 0 }, {820-878 0 }
  - **PSSCRM**: {E3.4 0 }, {E3.7 0 }
  - **[PCIDSS][Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard]**: {2.2.1 0 }, {2.2.3 0 }, {2.2.4 0 }, {2.2.5 0 }, {2.2.6 0 }, {6.2.1 0 }, {12.3.1 0 }, {12.8.1 0 }
  - **[800-161][NIST Special Publication 800-161 - Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management Practices for Systems and Organizations]**: {CM-2 0 }, {PL-2 0 }, {PL-8 0 }, {RA-3 0 }, {SA-15 0 }


---

### OSPS-SA-03 - The [project][Project] MUST assess the security posture of all software assets.


Provide project maintainers an understanding of how the software can be
misused or broken allows them to plan mitigations to close off the potential
of those threats from occurring.




#### OSPS-SA-03.01

**Requirement:** When the [project][Project] has made a [release][Release], the [project][Project] MUST perform a security assessment to understand the most likely and impactful potential security problems that could occur within the software.

**Recommendation:** 
Performing a security assessment informs both project members as well
as downstream consumers that the project understands what problems
could arise within the software. Understanding what threats could be
realized helps the project manage and address risk. This information
is useful to downstream consumers to demonstrate the security acumen
and practices of the project.
Ensure this is updated for new features or breaking changes.


**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 2
- Maturity Level 3




#### OSPS-SA-03.02

**Requirement:** When the [project][Project] has made a [release][Release], the [project][Project] MUST perform a threat modeling and [attack surface analysis][Attack Surface Analysis] to understand and protect against attacks on critical [code][Code] paths, functions, and interactions within the system.

**Recommendation:** 
Threat modeling is an activity where the project looks at the
codebase, associated processes and infrastructure, interfaces, key
components and &#34;thinks like a hacker&#34; and brainstorms how the system
be be broken or compromised. Each identified threat is listed out so
the project can then think about how to proactively avoid or close off
any gaps/vulnerabilities that could arise.
Ensure this is updated for new features or breaking changes.


**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 3




#### External Framework Mappings

  
  - **[BPB][Best Practices Badge]**: {B-S-8 0 }, {S-G-1 0 }
  - **[CRA][Cyber Resilience Act]**: {1.1 0 }, {1.2j 0 }, {1.2k 0 }, {2.2 0 }
  - **[SSDF][Secure Software Development Framework]**: {PO.5.1 0 }, {PW.1.1 0 }
  - **[CSF][Cybersecurity Framework]**: {ID.RA-01 0 }, {ID.RA-04 0 }, {ID.RA-05 0 }, {DE.AE-07 0 }
  - **ISO-[18974][OpenChain]**: {4.1.5 0 }
  - **[OpenCRE][OpenCRE]**: {068-102 0 }, {154-031 0 }, {888-770 0 }
  - **PSSCRM**: {G4.3 0 }, {G5.2 0 }, {P2.1 0 }
  - **[SAMM][Proactive Software Supply Chain Risk Management Framework]**: {Governance -Create and Promote Lvl1 0 }, {Design -Threat Assessment -Application Risk Profile Lvl1 0 }, {Design -Threat Assessment -Threat Modeling Lvl1 0 }, {Verification -Architecture Assessment -Architecture Mitigation Lvl2 0 }
  - **[PCIDSS][Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard]**: {2.2.4 0 }, {2.2.5 0 }, {2.2.6 0 }, {6.2.1 0 }, {6.2.3.1 0 }, {6.3.2 0 }, {6.4.2 0 }, {11.3.1 0 }, {12.3.1 0 }
  - **UKSSCOP**: {1.4 0 }, {3.3 0 }
  - **[800-161][NIST Special Publication 800-161 - Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management Practices for Systems and Organizations]**: {CA-2 0 }, {CA-2(3) 0 }, {PM-30 0 }, {RA-3 0 }, {SA-11 0 }, {SA-15 0 }, {SA-15(3) 0 }, {SA-15(8) 0 }, {SI-3 0 }, {SR-3 0 }, {SR-3(3) 0 }, {SR-6 0 }, {SR-7 0 }


---

## Vulnerability Management


Vulnerability Management focuses on the
processes and practices used to identify and
address security vulnerabilities in the project&#39;s
software dependencies. These controls help ensure
that the project is well positioned to respond to
security threats and vulnerabilities in the software.




### OSPS-VM-01 - The [project][Project] documentation MUST include a policy for coordinated vulnerability disclosure, with a clear timeframe for response.


Establish a process for reporting and addressing vulnerabilities in the
project, ensuring that security issues are handled promptly and
transparently.




#### OSPS-VM-01.01

**Requirement:** While active, the [project][Project] documentation MUST include a policy for [coordinated vulnerability disclosure][Coordinated Vulnerability Disclosure] ([CVD][Coordinated Vulnerability Disclosure]), with a clear timeframe for response.

**Recommendation:** 
Create a SECURITY.md file at the root of the directory, outlining the
project&#39;s policy for coordinated vulnerability disclosure. Include a
method for reporting vulnerabilities. Set expectations for how the
project will respond and address reported issues.



**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 2
- Maturity Level 3




#### External Framework Mappings

  
  - **[BPB][Best Practices Badge]**: {R-B-6 0 }, {R-B-8 0 }, {R-S-2 0 }, {S-B-14 0 }, {S-B-15 0 }
  - **[CRA][Cyber Resilience Act]**: {2.1 0 }, {2.2 0 }, {2.3 0 }, {2.6 0 }, {2.7 0 }, {2.8 0 }
  - **[SSDF][Secure Software Development Framework]**: {RV.1.3 0 }
  - **[CSF][Cybersecurity Framework]**: {GV.PO-01 0 }, {GV.PO-02 0 }, {ID.RA-01 0 }, {ID.RA-08 0 }
  - **ISO-[18974][OpenChain]**: {4.1.5 0 }, {4.2.1 0 }, {4.3.2 0 }
  - **[OpenCRE][OpenCRE]**: {887-750 0 }
  - **Scorecard**: {Security-Policy 0 }
  - **PSSCRM**: {D1.1 0 }, {D1.2 0 }, {D1.3 0 }, {D1.5 0 }
  - **[SAMM][Proactive Software Supply Chain Risk Management Framework]**: {Governance -Create and Promote Lvl2 0 }, {Governance -Policy &amp; Compliance -Policy &amp; Standards Lvl1 0 }, {Implementation -Defect Management -Defect Tracking Lvl1 0 }, {Implementation -Defect Management -Defect Tracking Lvl2 0 }, {Implementation -Defect Management -Defect Tracking Lvl3 0 }, {Operations -Incident Management -Incident Response Lvl1 0 }, {Operations -Incident Management -Incident Response Lvl2 0 }, {Operations -Incident Management -Incident Response Lvl3 0 }
  - **[PCIDSS][Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard]**: {2.1.1 0 }, {3.1.1 0 }, {4.1.1 0 }, {5.1.1 0 }, {6.1.1 0 }, {6.3.1 0 }, {6.3.2 0 }, {7.1.1 0 }, {8.1.1 0 }, {11.1.1 0 }, {11.2.1 0 }, {12.1.1 0 }, {12.1.3 0 }
  - **UKSSCOP**: {3.2 0 }, {3.4 0 }, {3.5 0 }
  - **[800-161][NIST Special Publication 800-161 - Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management Practices for Systems and Organizations]**: {IR-1 0 }, {IR-4 0 }, {IR-6 0 }, {IR-7(1) 0 }, {IR-8 0 }, {SI-2 0 }


---

### OSPS-VM-02 - The [project][Project] MUST publish contacts and process for reporting vulnerabilities.


Reports from researchers and users are an important source for identifying
vulnerabilities in a project. People with vulnerabilities to report should
have a clear understanding of the process so that they can quickly submit
the report to the project.




#### OSPS-VM-02.01

**Requirement:** While active, the [project][Project] documentation MUST contain security contacts.

**Recommendation:** 
Create a security.md (or similarly-named) file that contains security
contacts for the project.



**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 1




#### External Framework Mappings

  
  - **[BPB][Best Practices Badge]**: {B-S-8 0 }
  - **[CRA][Cyber Resilience Act]**: {2.5 0 }
  - **[SSDF][Secure Software Development Framework]**: {RV.1.3 0 }
  - **[CSF][Cybersecurity Framework]**: {GV.PO-01 0 }, {GV.PO-02 0 }, {ID.RA-01 0 }
  - **ISO-[18974][OpenChain]**: {4.1.1 0 }, {4.1.3 0 }, {4.1.5 0 }, {4.2.2 0 }
  - **[OpenCRE][OpenCRE]**: {464-513 0 }
  - **Scorecard**: {Security-Policy 0 }
  - **[SAMM][Proactive Software Supply Chain Risk Management Framework]**: {Governance -Policy&amp;Compliance -Policy&amp;Standards Lvl2 0 }
  - **[PCIDSS][Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard]**: {6.3.3 0 }, {12.1.1 0 }, {12.10.2 0 }
  - **UKSSCOP**: {3.2 0 }
  - **[800-161][NIST Special Publication 800-161 - Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management Practices for Systems and Organizations]**: {IR-1 0 }, {IR-4 0 }, {IR-6 0 }, {IR-8 0 }


---

### OSPS-VM-03 - The [project][Project] MUST provide a means for reporting security vulnerabilities privately to the security contacts within the [project][Project].


Security vulnerabilities should not be shared with the public until such
time the project has been provided time to analyze and prepare
remediations to protect users of the project.




#### OSPS-VM-03.01

**Requirement:** While active, the [project][Project] documentation MUST provide a means for [private vulnerability reporting][Private Vulnerability Reporting] directly to the security contacts within the [project][Project].

**Recommendation:** 
Provide a means for security researchers to report vulnerabilities
privately to the project. This may be a dedicated email address, a
web form, VCS specialized tools, email addresses for security
contacts, or other methods.



**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 2
- Maturity Level 3




#### External Framework Mappings

  
  - **[BPB][Best Practices Badge]**: {R-B-7 0 }
  - **[CRA][Cyber Resilience Act]**: {2.5 0 }, {2.6 0 }
  - **[OpenCRE][OpenCRE]**: {308-514 0 }
  - **[SAMM][Proactive Software Supply Chain Risk Management Framework]**: {Operations -Incident Management -Incident Response Lvl3 0 }
  - **[PCIDSS][Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard]**: {6.3.1 0 }, {6.3.3 0 }, {12.10.2 0 }
  - **UKSSCOP**: {3.2 0 }
  - **[800-161][NIST Special Publication 800-161 - Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management Practices for Systems and Organizations]**: {IR-6 0 }


---

### OSPS-VM-04 - The [project][Project] MUST publicly publish data about discovered vulnerabilities.


Consumers of the project must be informed about known vulnerabilities
found within the project.




#### OSPS-VM-04.01

**Requirement:** While active, the [project][Project] documentation MUST publicly publish data about discovered vulnerabilities.

**Recommendation:** 
Provide information about known vulnerabilities in a predictable
public channel, such as a CVE entry, blog post, or other medium.
To the degree possible, this information should include affected
version(s), how a consumer can determine if they are vulnerable, and
instructions for mitigation or remediation.


**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 2
- Maturity Level 3




#### OSPS-VM-04.02

**Requirement:** While active, any vulnerabilities in the software components not affecting the [project][Project] MUST be accounted for in a VEX document, augmenting the vulnerability report with non-exploitability details.

**Recommendation:** 
Establish a VEX feed communicating the exploitability status of
known vulnerabilities, including assessment details or any
mitigations in place preventing vulnerable code from being
executed.



**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 3




#### External Framework Mappings

  
  - **[CRA][Cyber Resilience Act]**: {1.2a 0 }, {1.2b 0 }, {2.1 0 }, {2.4 0 }, {2.6 0 }
  - **[SSDF][Secure Software Development Framework]**: {PO.4.1 0 }, {RV.2.1 0 }, {RV.2.2 0 }
  - **[CSF][Cybersecurity Framework]**: {ID.RA-01 0 }
  - **ISO-[18974][OpenChain]**: {4.1.5 0 }
  - **PSSCRM**: {G2.2 0 }, {D1.1 0 }
  - **[PCIDSS][Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard]**: {6.2.3 0 }, {6.3.1 0 }, {6.3.2 0 }, {6.3.3 0 }, {11.3.1 0 }
  - **UKSSCOP**: {3.4 0 }, {3.5 0 }, {4.3 0 }
  - **[800-161][NIST Special Publication 800-161 - Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management Practices for Systems and Organizations]**: {CA-7 0 }, {CM-3 0 }, {CM-8 0 }, {IR-5 0 }, {SI-2 0 }, {SI-4 0 }, {SI-5 0 }


---

### OSPS-VM-05 - The [project][Project] MUST enforce a policy for addressing [SCA][Software Composition Analysis] findings.


Ensure that the project clearly communicates the threshold for remediation
of SCA findings, including vulnerabilities and license issues in software
dependencies.
Ensure that violations of your SCA policy are addressed before software
is merged as well as before it releases, reducing the risk of compromised
delivery mechanisms or released software assets that are vulnerable or
malicious.




#### OSPS-VM-05.01

**Requirement:** While active, the [project][Project] documentation MUST include a policy that defines a threshold for remediation of [SCA][Software Composition Analysis] findings related to vulnerabilities and [licenses][License].

**Recommendation:** 
Document a policy in the project that defines a threshold for
remediation of SCA findings related to vulnerabilities and licenses.
Include the process for identifying, prioritizing, and remediating
these findings.


**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 3




#### OSPS-VM-05.02

**Requirement:** While active, the [project][Project] documentation MUST include a policy to address [SCA][Software Composition Analysis] violations prior to any [release][Release].

**Recommendation:** 
Document a policy in the project to address applicable Software
Composition Analysis results before any release, and add status checks
that verify compliance with that policy prior to release.


**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 3




#### OSPS-VM-05.03

**Requirement:** While active, all [changes][Change] to the [project][Project]&#39;s codebase MUST be automatically evaluated against a documented policy for malicious dependencies and [known vulnerabilities][Known Vulnerabilities] in dependencies, then blocked in the event of violations, except when declared and suppressed as non-exploitable.

**Recommendation:** 
Create a status check in the project&#39;s version control system that
runs a Software Composition Analysis tool on all changes
to the codebase. Require that the status check passes before changes
can be merged.



**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 3




#### External Framework Mappings

  
  - **[BPB][Best Practices Badge]**: {B-S-8 0 }, {Q-B-12 0 }, {Q-S-9 0 }, {S-B-14 0 }, {S-B-15 0 }, {A-B-1 0 }, {A-B-3 0 }, {A-B-8 0 }, {A-S-1 0 }
  - **[CRA][Cyber Resilience Act]**: {1.2a 0 }, {1.2b 0 }, {1.2c 0 }, {2.1 0 }, {2.2 0 }, {2.3 0 }, {2.4 0 }
  - **[SSDF][Secure Software Development Framework]**: {PO.4 0 }, {PW.1.2 0 }, {PW.8.1 0 }, {RV.1.2 0 }, {RV.1.3 0 }, {RV.2.1 0 }, {RV.2.2 0 }
  - **[CSF][Cybersecurity Framework]**: {GV.RM-05 0 }, {GV.RM-06 0 }, {GV.PO-01 0 }, {GV.PO-02 0 }, {ID.RA-01 0 }, {ID.RA-08 0 }, {ID.IM-02 0 }
  - **ISO-[18974][OpenChain]**: {4.1.5 0 }, {4.2.1 0 }, {4.2.2 0 }, {4.3.2 0 }
  - **[OpenCRE][OpenCRE]**: {155-155 0 }, {124-564 0 }, {757-271 0 }, {464-513 0 }, {611-158 0 }, {207-435 0 }, {088-377 0 }
  - **Scorecard**: {Security-Policy 0 }, {Vulnerabilities 0 }
  - **PSSCRM**: {G5.4 0 }, {P4.1 0 }, {P4.2 0 }, {P4.3 0 }, {P4.4 0 }, {P4.5 0 }
  - **[SAMM][Proactive Software Supply Chain Risk Management Framework]**: {Implementation -Secure Build-Build Process Lvl3 0 }, {Implementation -Software Dependencies Lvl3 0 }, {Verification -Security Testing -Scalable Baseline Lvl1 0 }, {Verification -Security Testing -Scalable Baseline Lvl3 0 }
  - **[PCIDSS][Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard]**: {6.2.3 0 }, {6.3.1 0 }, {6.3.2 0 }, {6.4.1 0 }, {6.4.2 0 }
  - **UKSSCOP**: {1.2 0 }, {3.3 0 }
  - **[800-161][NIST Special Publication 800-161 - Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management Practices for Systems and Organizations]**: {CA-7 0 }, {RA-5 0 }, {SA-11 0 }, {SI-2 0 }, {SI-3 0 }


---

### OSPS-VM-06 - The [project][Project] documentation MUST enforce a policy that defines a threshold for remediation of SAST findings.


Identify and address defects and security weaknesses in the project&#39;s
codebase early in the development process, reducing the risk of shipping
insecure software.




#### OSPS-VM-06.01

**Requirement:** While active, the [project][Project] documentation MUST include a policy that defines a threshold for remediation of SAST findings.

**Recommendation:** 
Document a policy in the project that defines a threshold for
remediation of Static Application Security Testing (SAST) findings.
Include the process for identifying, prioritizing, and remediating
these findings.


**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 3




#### OSPS-VM-06.02

**Requirement:** While active, all [changes][Change] to the [project][Project]&#39;s codebase MUST be automatically evaluated against a documented policy for security weaknesses and blocked in the event of violations except when declared and suppressed as non-exploitable.

**Recommendation:** 
Create a status check in the project&#39;s version control system that
runs a Static Application Security Testing (SAST) tool on all changes
to the codebase. Require that the status check passes before changes
can be merged.


**Control applies to:**
- Maturity Level 3




#### External Framework Mappings

  
  - **[BPB][Best Practices Badge]**: {B-S-8 0 }, {Q-B-12 0 }, {Q-S-9 0 }, {S-B-14 0 }, {S-B-15 0 }, {A-B-1 0 }, {A-B-3 0 }, {A-B-8 0 }, {A-S-1 0 }
  - **[CRA][Cyber Resilience Act]**: {1.2a 0 }, {1.2b 0 }, {1.2c 0 }, {2.1 0 }, {2.2 0 }, {2.3 0 }, {2.4 0 }
  - **[SSDF][Secure Software Development Framework]**: {PO.4 0 }, {PW.1.2 0 }, {PW.8.1 0 }, {RV.1.2 0 }, {RV.1.3 0 }, {RV.2.1 0 }, {RV 2.2 0 }
  - **[CSF][Cybersecurity Framework]**: {GV.RM-05 0 }, {GV.RM-06 0 }, {GV.PO-01 0 }, {GV.PO-02 0 }, {ID.RA-01 0 }, {ID.RA-08 0 }, {ID.IM-02 0 }
  - **ISO-[18974][OpenChain]**: {4.1.5 0 }, {4.2.1 0 }, {4.2.2 0 }, {4.3.2 0 }
  - **[OpenCRE][OpenCRE]**: {155-155 0 }, {124-564 0 }, {757-271 0 }, {464-513 0 }, {611-158 0 }, {207-435 0 }, {088-377 0 }
  - **Scorecard**: {Security-Policy 0 }, {Vulnerabilities 0 }, {SAST 0 }
  - **PSSCRM**: {G5.4 0 }, {P4.1 0 }, {P4.2 0 }, {P4.3 0 }, {P4.4 0 }, {P4.5 0 }
  - **[SAMM][Proactive Software Supply Chain Risk Management Framework]**: {Implementation -Secure Build-Build Process Lvl3 0 }, {Implementation -Software Dependencies Lvl3 0 }, {Verification -Security Testing -Scalable Baseline Lvl1 0 }, {Verification -Security Testing -Scalable Baseline Lvl3 0 }
  - **[PCIDSS][Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard]**: {6.2.3 0 }, {6.3.1 0 }, {6.3.2 0 }, {6.4.1 0 }, {6.4.2 0 }, {6.5.2 0 }
  - **UKSSCOP**: {1.3 0 }, {1.4 0 }
  - **[800-161][NIST Special Publication 800-161 - Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management Practices for Systems and Organizations]**: {CA-7 0 }, {RA-5 0 }, {SA-11 0 }, {SI-2 0 }, {SI-3 0 }


---

## External Frameworks

Controls within this document may map to the following external frameworks:

| ID | Title | Version | Description |
|----|-------|---------|-------------|
| BPB | [OpenSSF Best Practices Badge](https://github.com/coreinfrastructure/best-practices-badge/blob/main/criteria/criteria.yml) | 2024 | The Open Source Security Foundation (OpenSSF) Best Practices Badge is a way for Free/Libre and Open Source Software (FLOSS) projects to show that they follow best practices. Projects can voluntarily self-certify, at no cost, by using this web application to explain how they follow each best practice. The OpenSSF Best Practices Badge is inspired by the many badges available to projects on GitHub. Consumers of the badge can quickly assess which FLOSS projects are following best practices and, as a result, are more likely to produce higher-quality secure software. |
| CSF | [NIST Cybersecurity Framework](https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/CSWP/NIST.CSWP.29.pdf) | 2 | The NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) 2.0 provides guidance to industry, government agencies, and other organizations to manage cybersecurity risks. It offers a taxonomy of high level cybersecurity outcomes that can be used by any organization  regardless of its size, sector, or maturity  to better understand, assess, prioritize, and communicate its cybersecurity efforts. The CSF does not prescribe how outcomes should be achieved. Rather, it links to online resources that provide additional guidance on practices and controls that could be used to achieve those outcomes. |
| CRA | [Cyber Resilience Act](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/HTML/?uri=OJ:L_202402847#tit_1) | 20.11.2024 | Regulation (EU) 2024/2847 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2024 on horizontal cybersecurity requirements for products with digital elements and amending Regulations (EU) No 168/2013 and (EU) 2019/1020 and Directive (EU) 2020/1828 (Cyber Resilience Act) (Text with EEA relevance) |
| SSDF | [Secure Software Development Framework](https://csrc.nist.gov/pubs/sp/800/218/final) | 1.1 | The Secure Software Development Framework (SSDF) is a set of fundamental, sound, and secure software development practices based on established secure software development practice documents from organizations such as BSA, OWASP, and SAFECode. Few software development life cycle (SDLC) models explicitly address software security in detail, so practices like those in the SSDF need to be added to and integrated with each SDLC implementation. Following the SSDF practices should help software producers reduce the number of vulnerabilities in released software, reduce the potential impact of the exploitation of undetected or unaddressed vulnerabilities, and address the root causes of vulnerabilities to prevent recurrences. Also, because the SSDF provides a common language for describing secure software development practices, software producers and acquirers can use it to foster their communications for procurement processes and other management activities. |
| OC | [ISO/IEC 18974](https://openchainproject.org/security-assurance) | 1.0 - 2023-12 | ISO/IEC 18974 helps organizations check open source for known security vulnerability issues like CVEs, GitHub dependency alerts or package manager alerts. ISO/IEC 18974 identifies: The key places to have security processes, How to assign roles and responsibilities, And how to ensure sustainability of the processes. ISO/IEC 18974 is lightweight, easy to read and is supported by our global community with free reference material and conformance resources. |
| OCRE | [Open Cybersecurity Reference Architecture](https://github.com/OWASP/OpenCRE) | 2024 | OpenCRE stands for Open Common Requirement enumeration. It is an interactive content linking platform for uniting security standards and guidelines. It offers easy and robust access to relevant information when designing, developing, testing and procuring secure software. |
| SLSA | [Supply Chain Levels for Software Artifacts](https://github.com/slsa-framework/slsa) | 1 | SLSA (pronounced &#34;salsa&#34;) is a security framework from source to service, giving anyone working with software a common language for increasing levels of software security and supply chain integrity. Its how you get from safe enough to being as resilient as possible, at any link in the chain. |
| PSSCRM | [Proactive Software Supply Chain Risk Management Framework](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2404.12300) | 1 | The Proactive-Software Supply Chain Risk Management (P-SSCRM) Framework is designed to help you understand and plan a secure software supply chain risk management initiative. P-SSCRM was created through a process of understanding and analyzing real-world data from nine industry-leading software supply chain risk management initiatives as well as through the analysis and unification of ten government and industry documents, frameworks, and standards. Although individual methodologies and standards differ, many initiatives and standards share common ground. P-SSCRM describes this common ground and presents a model for understanding, quantifying, and developing a secure software supply chain risk management program and determining where your organizations existing efforts stand when contrasted with other real-world software supply chain risk management initiatives. |
| SAMM | [OWASP Software Assurance Maturity Model](https://owaspsamm.org/model/) | 2 | The mission of OWASP Software Assurance Maturity Model (SAMM) is to be the prime maturity model for software assurance that provides an effective and measurable way for all types of organizations to analyze and improve their software security posture. OWASP SAMM supports the complete software lifecycle, including development and acquisition, and is technology and process agnostic. It is intentionally built to be evolutive and risk-driven in nature. |
| PCIDSS | [Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard](https://docs-prv.pcisecuritystandards.org/PCI%20DSS/Standard/PCI-DSS-v4_0_1.pdf) | 4.0.1 | PCI Security Standards are technical and operational requirements set by the PCI Security Standards Council (PCI SSC) to protect cardholder data. The standards apply to all entities that store, process or transmit cardholder data  with requirements for software developers and manufacturers of applications and devices used in those transactions. The Council is responsible for managing the security standards, while compliance with the PCI set of standards is enforced by the founding members of the Council: American Express, Discover Financial Services, JCB, MasterCard and Visa Inc. The PCI Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) applies to all entities that store, process, and/or transmit cardholder data. It covers technical and operational system components included in or connected to cardholder data. If you accept or process payment cards, PCI DSS applies to you. |
| 800-161 | [NIST Special Publication 800-161 - Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management Practices for Systems and Organizations](https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-161r1-upd1.pdf) | r1-upd1 | This publication provides guidance to organizations on identifying, assessing, and mitigating cybersecurity risks throughout the supply chain at all levels of their organizations. The publication integrates cybersecurity supply chain risk management (C-SCRM) into risk management activities by applying a multilevel, C-SCRM-specific approach, including guidance on the development of C-SCRM strategy implementation plans, C-SCRM policies, C-SCRM plans, and risk assessments for products and services. |
| UKSSCOP | [United Kingdom National Cyber Security Centre Software Security Code of Practice](https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/guidance/software-security-code-of-practice-assurance-principles-claims) | 2025-05-07 | The Software Code of Practice has been created by DSIT and the National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC), the UKs technical authority for cyber security, and is co-sealed by the Canadian Centre for Cyber Security (CCCS). The Code reflects the governments ongoing focus on codifying minimum standards for technology providers to reduce cyber risk. It is aimed at professionals who are responsible for overseeing the development of commodity software, including technical, compliance, and risk experts. For those organisations that require a higher level of assurance in the resilience of their connected products and technology, consider using the NCSCs Cyber Resilience Testing scheme. |


---

## Lexicon


### Administrator


Any human who can modify settings on the target resource.




### Arbitrary Code


Code provided by an external source that is
executed by a system without validation or
restriction.




### Attack Surface Analysis


Attack Surface Analysis is about mapping out what parts of a system need to
be reviewed and tested for security vulnerabilities. The point of Attack
Surface Analysis is to understand the risk areas in an application, to make
developers and security specialists aware of what parts of the application
are open to attack, to find ways of minimizing this, and to notice when and
how the Attack Surface changes and what this means from a risk perspective.

See OWASP&#39;s Attack Surface Analysis Cheat Sheet for more information.



**References:**

  - https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Attack_Surface_Analysis_Cheat_Sheet.html


### Automated Test Suite


A collection of pre-written test cases that, when invoked,
execute the software to verify that actual results are expected results
without requiring manual intervention.
An automated test suite must return an overall &#34;pass&#34; or &#34;fail&#34; result,
and is often implemented using a test framework.
Common ways to invoke automated tests include `make check`, `make test`, `npm test`, and `cargo test` manually or as part of a Continuous Integration workflow.




### Best Practices Badge


The OpenSSF Best Practices Badge Identifies FLOSS best practices &amp; implements a badging system for those practices.



**References:**

  - https://www.bestpractices.dev/en


### Build and Release Pipeline


A series of automated processes that compile
and deploy software. Similar to the generic
term CI/CD Pipelines, but this term excludes
some pipelines, such as pre-merge status
checks.




### Code


A set of deterministic instructions that a
computer can execute to perform specific tasks.




### Change


Any alteration of the project&#39;s codebase,
CI/CD Pipelines, or documentation. This may
include addition, deletion, or modification
of content.




### CI/CD Pipeline


Automated pipelines for Continuous
Integration and Continuous Delivery.
Responsible for building, testing, and
delivering changes. These pipelines integrate
contributions frequently, enabling rapid and
reliable software delivery. CI focuses on
testing and building code, while CD delivers
software to location such as a package
registry.

In the context of the Open Source Project
Security Baseline, CD refers only to
continuous delivery, not to continuous
deployment, as sometimes used elsewhere.




### Contributor License Agreement


A legal agreement used to assign some of a contributor&#39;s
rights covered by copyright laws to a project. This is
often used to enable a project to make future changes to
a work&#39;s license without requiring the assent of every
contributor.




### Contributor


Any entity that has made a change to the contents of a repository.




### Collaborator


Any entity who has any level of permissions issued by administrators
of the repository.




### Commit


A record of a single change submitted to the
version control system. Each commit includes
details such as the modifications made, the
contributor who made them, and the timestamp
of the change.




### Coordinated Vulnerability Disclosure


A process of gathering information from vulnerability finders, coordinating
the sharing of that information between relevant stakeholders, and
disclosing the existence of software vulnerabilities and their mitigations
to various stakeholders including the public.



**References:**

  - https://certcc.github.io/CERT-Guide-to-CVD/

  - https://www.first.org/global/sigs/vulnerability-coordination/multiparty/guidelines-v1-1

  - https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/security-advisories/guidance-on-reporting-and-writing-information-about-vulnerabilities/about-coordinated-disclosure-of-security-vulnerabilities


### Cyber Resilience Act


Regulation (EU) 2024/2847 (Cyber Resilience Act, CRA).
2024 European cybersecurity law that goes into full effect
December 2027.  Focuses on products sold within the European
Union and the cybersecurity and vulnerability management
practices used to create and support the product.



**References:**

  - https://eur-lex.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/2847/oj


### Cybersecurity Framework


The NIST Cyber Security Framework (CSF) helps organizations understand and improve their management of cybersecurity risk.



**References:**

  - https://www.nist.gov/cyberframework

  - https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.CSWP.29


### Defect


Errors or flaws in the software that cause it
to produce incorrect or unintended results, 
or to behave in an unintended way. Defects
can include bugs, vulnerabilities, or other
issues that impact the software&#39;s
functionality or security. Defects may have
originally been intentional, but a change in
environment or understanding has made them
undesirable.




### Developer Certificate of Origin


An assertion made by a contributor that they have the
legal right to make a specific contribution to a
project. This is often indicated by using the
`--signoff` option to `git commit`.



**References:**

  - https://developercertificate.org/


### OpenEoX


An initiative aimed at standardizing the way
End-of-Life and End-of-Support information is 
exchanged within the software and hardware industries.
Covering both vendors and open-source maintainers,
OpenEoX strives to provide a transparent, efficient, 
and unified approach to managing product lifecycles.



**References:**

  - https://openeox.org/


### Exploitable Vulnerabilities


Defects in the software that can be leveraged
by attackers to gain unauthorized access,
execute arbitrary code, or cause other
undesired outcomes.




### License


A legal document that defines the terms under
which the software can be used, modified, and
distributed. May be stored at the top level
of the repository in a file named `LICENSE`
or within files in a directory named
`LICENSE/`. The license applies to repository
contents and any released software assets,
unless otherwise stated.




### Known Vulnerabilities


Publicly acknowledged exploitable
vulnerabilities that have been identified
within the software. These vulnerabilities
often have associated advisories, patches, or
recommended mitigations.

All proposed changes to the project&#39;s
codebase must be automatically evaluated 
against a documented policy for known
vulnerabilities and blocked in the
event of violations.




### Maintainer


A human collaborator who is able to authorize
changes to the contents of a repository.




### Multi-factor Authentication


An authentication method that requires two or
more verification factors (e.g., a password
and a token) to gain access to a resource.
This method strengthens security by requiring
multiple forms of identification.




### NIST Special Publication 800-161 - Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management Practices for Systems and Organizations


Provides guidance to organizations on identifying, 
assessing, and mitigating cybersecurity risks throughout 
the supply chain at all levels of their organizations.



**References:**

  - https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-161r1-upd1.pdf


### OpenChain


A Linux Foundation project that oversee two ISO/IEC standards to better understand and manage software supply chains. 



**References:**

  - https://openchainproject.org/

  - https://openchainproject.org/license-compliance


### OpenCRE


An OWASP project that converts cybersecurity requirements into a hierarchical, machine-readable format.



**References:**

  - https://www.opencre.org/

  - https://zeljkoobrenovic.github.io/opencre-explorer/


### OpenSSF Scorecard


An OpenSSF project that helps users assesses open 
source projects for security risks through a series 
of automated checks. It was created by OSS developers 
to help improve the health of critical projects
that the community depends on.



**References:**

  - https://github.com/ossf/scorecard

  - https://scorecard.dev/


### Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard


PCI DSS provides a baseline of technical and operational 
requirements designed to protect payment account data.



**References:**

  - https://docs-prv.pcisecuritystandards.org/PCI%20DSS/Standard/PCI-DSS-v4_0_1.pdf


### Primary Branch


The main development branch in the version
control system, representing the latest
stable codebase. Releases are typically made
from this branch. Commonly named `main` or
`master`. In some situations where branches
are not featured, a repository with forked
repositories will have the original repo
acting as an equivalent to the primary
branch.




### Private Vulnerability Reporting


The process of privately reporting a
vulnerability to the project maintainers or
security team before disclosing it publicly.
This allows the project to address the issue
before it becomes widely known.



**References:**

  - https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/security-advisories/guidance-on-reporting-and-writing-information-about-vulnerabilities/privately-reporting-a-security-vulnerability


### Proactive Software Supply Chain Risk Management Framework


A holistic framework that an organization can use to 
proactively mitigate software supply chain risk through 
guided adoption of tasks; and that supports assessment,
scoring, and comparison against industry peers, 
standards, and guidelines. The P-SSCRM contextualizes and
quantifies the tasks contained across multiple standards 
and frameworks to those carried out by various kinds of organizations.



**References:**

  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2404.12300


### Project


A group of people and resources that coordinate to
produce a release.




### Project Documentation


Written materials related to the project,
such as user guides, developer guides, and
contribution guidelines. These documents help
users and developers understand, contribute
to, and interact with the software. At
release time, this may include provenance
information, licensing details, and other
metadata.




### Proactive Software Supply Chain Risk Management Framework


A maturity model for software assurance that provides an 
effective and measurable way for all types of organizations 
to analyze and improve their software security posture. 
OWASP SAMM supports the complete software lifecycle, including 
development and acquisition, and is technology and process agnostic. 
It is intentionally built to be evolutive and risk-driven in nature.



**References:**

  - https://owaspsamm.org/model/


### Sensitive Data


Information that, if disclosed to unauthorized
parties, would lead to unauthorized access,
data exfiltration, financial loss, or other
undesirable outcomes. This includes secrets
(like passwords, access tokens, etc.),
financial account information, personally
identifiable information (PII), and data about
embargoed vulnerabilities.




### Sensitive Resource


Resources that, if compromised, would provide a
vector for further compromising software build
and delivery or for disclosing sensitive data to
unauthorized parties. This includes build systems,
image repositories, and data storage.




### Software Provenance


Information about the origin and history of
the released software assets. This may
include details about its development,
dependencies, vulnerabilities, contributors,
and licensing.




### Release


- _(verb)_ The process of making a
version-controlled bundle of assets available
to users, such as through a package registry.
- _(noun)_  A version-controlled bundle of
assets made available to users.




### Released Software Asset


Deliverables provided to users as part of a
release. These assets can include binaries,
libraries, or containers.




### Repository


A storage location managed by a version control
system where the project&#39;s code, documentation,
and other resources are stored.




### Secure Software Development Framework


The NIST Secure Software Development Framework (SP 800-218) is a 
broadly reviewed and collaborative set of fundamental secure software 
development practices.



**References:**

  - https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/ssdf

  - https://csrc.nist.gov/pubs/sp/800/218/final


### Software Bill of Materials


A list of all components that make up a given piece of software
or hardware, formatted as CycloneDX or SPDX. This list must include
the following data elements for the components included in the released
software asset: license, supplier name, filename of the component,
component name, component version, software identifiers, relationship
between the components, author of the SBOM data and timestamp. Additionally,
for deployable and executable components, the SBOM should record their
cryptographic hashes.



**References:**

  - https://www.ntia.gov/sites/default/files/publications/sbom_minimum_elements_report_0.pdf

  - https://www.cisa.gov/sites/default/files/2023-04/sbom-types-document-508c.pdf

  - https://spdx.dev

  - https://cyclonedx.org


### Software Composition Analysis


The process of identifying and cataloging all
components and dependencies in a software
codebase. SCA is essential for managing
security vulnerabilities and ensuring
compliance with organizational policies.




### Status Check


Automated tests or validations that run on
commits before they are merged. Status checks
ensure that any changes meet the project&#39;s
quality and security standards.




### Subproject


A codebase that is part of the project but
maintained in a separate repository.
Subprojects may be compiled into the primary
project or used as standalone components.




### Supply-chain Levels for Software Artifacts


An OpenSSF project that sets guidelines for securing software supply chain infrastructure and artifact integrity. 



**References:**

  - https://openssf.org/projects/slsa/

  - https://slsa.dev/


### Threat Modeling


Threat modeling is an activity where the project
looks at the codebase, associated processes and 
infrastructure, interfaces, key components and 
&#34;thinks like a hacker&#34; to brainstorm how the 
system be be broken or compromised.

Each identified threat is listed out so the project
can then think about how to proactively avoid or 
close off any gaps/vulnerabilities that could arise.

Examples of threat modeling methodologies include
the Shostack &#34;4 Questions&#34; model, STRIDE, and
tools such as the Elevation of Privilege Threat
Modeling Card Game or Threat Dragon.



**References:**

  - https://github.com/adamshostack/4QuestionFrame

  - https://owasp.org/www-community/Threat_Modeling_Process

  - https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=20303

  - https://owasp.org/www-project-threat-dragon


### Version Identifier


A label assigned to a specific release of the
software, such as `v1.2.3`. Commonly
recommended formats are Semantic Versioning
or Calendar Versioning.




### User


A human making use of project resources, such as
the software, documentation, or other community
resources. This includes both end-users and
contributors.




### Version Control System


A tool that facilitates collaboration among
contributors by tracking changes, managing
collaborator permissions, and providing configuration
options. Examples of version control systems include
Git, Subversion, and Mercurial.




### Vulnerability Reporting


The act of identifying and documenting
exploitable vulnerabilities in released
software assets. This may include privately
or openly reporting vulnerabilities to
maintainers, security teams, or the public,
as well as tracking the resolution of these
vulnerabilities.



**References:**

  - https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/security-advisories/guidance-on-reporting-and-writing-information-about-vulnerabilities/privately-reporting-a-security-vulnerability


---

## Acknowledgments

This baseline was created by community leaders from across the Linux Foundation, including:

- OpenJS Foundation (OpenJS)
- Open Source Security Foundation (OpenSSF)
- Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF)
- Fintech Open Source Foundation (FINOS)
- [OSPS Baseline contributors](https://github.com/ossf/security-baseline/graphs/contributors)

[Administrator]: #administrator
[Arbitrary Code]: #arbitrary-code
[Attack Surface Analysis]: #attack-surface-analysis
[Automated Test Suite]: #automated-test-suite
[Best Practices Badge]: #best-practices-badge
[Build and Release Pipeline]: #build-and-release-pipeline
[Code]: #code
[Change]: #change
[CI/CD Pipeline]: #ci-cd-pipeline
[Contributor License Agreement]: #contributor-license-agreement
[Contributor]: #contributor
[Collaborator]: #collaborator
[Commit]: #commit
[Coordinated Vulnerability Disclosure]: #coordinated-vulnerability-disclosure
[Cyber Resilience Act]: #cyber-resilience-act
[Cybersecurity Framework]: #cybersecurity-framework
[Defect]: #defect
[Developer Certificate of Origin]: #developer-certificate-of-origin
[OpenEoX]: #openeox
[Exploitable Vulnerabilities]: #exploitable-vulnerabilities
[License]: #license
[Known Vulnerabilities]: #known-vulnerabilities
[Maintainer]: #maintainer
[Multi-factor Authentication]: #multi-factor-authentication
[NIST Special Publication 800-161 - Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management Practices for Systems and Organizations]: #nist-special-publication-800-161---cybersecurity-supply-chain-risk-management-practices-for-systems-and-organizations
[OpenChain]: #openchain
[OpenCRE]: #opencre
[OpenSSF Scorecard]: #openssf-scorecard
[Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard]: #payment-card-industry-data-security-standard
[Primary Branch]: #primary-branch
[Private Vulnerability Reporting]: #private-vulnerability-reporting
[Proactive Software Supply Chain Risk Management Framework]: #proactive-software-supply-chain-risk-management-framework
[Project]: #project
[Project Documentation]: #project-documentation
[Proactive Software Supply Chain Risk Management Framework]: #proactive-software-supply-chain-risk-management-framework
[Sensitive Data]: #sensitive-data
[Sensitive Resource]: #sensitive-resource
[Software Provenance]: #software-provenance
[Release]: #release
[Released Software Asset]: #released-software-asset
[Repository]: #repository
[Secure Software Development Framework]: #secure-software-development-framework
[Software Bill of Materials]: #software-bill-of-materials
[Software Composition Analysis]: #software-composition-analysis
[Status Check]: #status-check
[Subproject]: #subproject
[Supply-chain Levels for Software Artifacts]: #supply-chain-levels-for-software-artifacts
[Threat Modeling]: #threat-modeling
[Version Identifier]: #version-identifier
[User]: #user
[Version Control System]: #version-control-system
[Vulnerability Reporting]: #vulnerability-reporting
